Commute


Heads bob like buoys in 
the swell of bus suspension
while those standing cling 
with barnacle grip avoiding the drift
of a sudden current shift.
Placid faces sink towards
heavy shoulders and little anchors 
weigh down eyelids with visions
of waves and sun floating
across those dark lids.   
































































Trees and Undergrowth


After Vincent van Gogh


I.


Between layers of green, you wait. Fingers of leaves
grappled at you when you walked the path I painted.
Don’t trip on the century old branches. They read your 
mind, write messages in soil you walk over. 


II. 


I painted you in camouflage. Somewhere among splotches, 
sitting on a bark thrown, your amber eyes watch for me: a
prince of seventeen, handcuffed to a horse and housed 
within a name I race to escape from.   


My horse, a paintbrush and I, a prince. 


III.


I stroke fervorously to get to you. In the painting, night and
day are one: time a puddle I elongate with colored oils. Boughs
and branches grow and my body is now stained the yellow
of your eyes right before I told you I couldn’t stay. 


IV. 


I spell sorry in Pointillism and pray you can read that
kind of braille with your untrained eyes. Dark green is missing
and light green is sadness. Love is a two-dimensional canvas that 


lost our love behind a curtain of color.


V. 


Paint takes years to dry if you know what’s behind the colors and
the shifting shade of your auburn eyes is now lost in a forest. I
rock my body through that forest I painted when I forget how to 
tell time, and reach for the sword of the prince I was to you. 












People Don’t Mind


People don’t mind being used
   but they do when 
      they’re discarded.


Screams swallowed like the 
sound a cig makes when it’s
 flicked
 into a puddle. 
 Storms, 


rainwater on hot pavement,
                and other smells 
       that remind you of 


summer nights in bed, 
mosquitos suckling 
her neck sweat.


Memories draw blood,
                                      so stop
                                                     thinking
                                                                    and they’ll go away.












































Nocturnal


I’m allowed to tuck him in 
but I can’t stay the night 
so he spoons my figure 
protected by linen and down 
like when we still had sex 
with condoms before my HIV test. 


The living room lights are dimmed 
where his mom is pretending to sleep
on the couch where he blew me last week, 
where we drink coffee and eat Oreos. 


I close the door behind me 
and ring for the elevator, 
stepping inside the infinity 
of the mirrored walls. 
I breath on the glass and 
I can’t see my face in the fog.










































Rorschach Test


I remember the scratching of my two enormous suitcases on the uneven cobblestone, not yet realizing that I had been scammed out of 30 precious euros by a seedy cab driver on my way from the airport whose musty car had smelled of bad incense. He must have spotted me from the noise, saw my old gray sweatshirt, giant headphones, and wide, searching eyes against a backdrop of pristinely dressed Parisians and thought, easy pickings. On the drive over, the grey and white buildings and low-hanging clouds had made the outskirts of the city feel like a ghostly wonderland, and the faint blaring of distant sirens, the smell of pollution and city sounds now consumed my awareness. Bordering the Canal St. Martin, the neighborhood seemed timeless but for the people who turned the corners of the street, old couples with trench coats and canes, young mothers carrying bags of fresh groceries with their little ones dawdling behind them, teenagers clad in black, riding skateboards or dribbling soccer balls, shouting to their friends, “Allez, allez, Maxime!” 
A craggy brick facade lining the house was a gradient of pink and red, reaching skyward, covered in silver and black graffiti–my home for the next six months. The doorbell buzzed, and Nathalie answered, strawberry hair disheveled, with two warm kisses on my cheeks. She pulled a bright red case from the front pocket of her loose shirt, and offered me a cigarette, which I accepted, eager to impress with my nonchalance. Upstairs, my host brother and sister waited, freshly risen from a nap at mid-noon. I had been awake for 36 hours. The cheap, acidic coffee that had made my hands shake was starting to wane from my system, and the skin around my eyes was enrobed with darkness, but I was determined to keep my mind awake. Carla and Adrien, ivory-skinned and rail-thin with piercing green eyes, greeted me, their air of casual beauty immediately enchanting and intimidating. My suitcases made for an awkward ascent up the too-narrow stairwell, as if my American life were being squeezed into this tiny foreign chamber. 
Five weeks later, I stood in front of a Kandinsky paintings in the Musee Pompidou when I thought of my Dad for the first time since moving across the sea. Auf Spitzen, or Sur Les Points, is a Bauhaus abstract painting, completely non-representational, holding only geometric shapes and passionate bursts of colors. So far removed from anything recognizable, it makes me feel strangely at home. Perfect circles and adamantine lines intersect and push against each other in a violent struggle. Clouds of yellow, pink and grey float dreamily above the black outline of the most arrogant circle. A lonely orange square sits flatly on the parallel lines at the bottom of the composition. The colors are fighting, but this one remains neutral. I am reminded of the coloring books that my parents always kept our shelves stocked with in the early days of my childhood, before kindergarten and the end of the carefree days of ice cream and coloring and stomping in puddles. I would always refuse to color outside of the lines–even if I drew my own picture, everything always had its place. Only when I took up painting in school was I taught not to cry when the oranges bled into the purples, and that a picture could always be beautiful in the end, even if they seemed ugly for a moment.  
Some people pass by these paintings with squinted eyes and tilted heads, deep in thought, (Parisians tend to contemplate everything. They sit and hold their chins and nod, staring into the great void). Others turn on their heels to dismiss it. Art? I could have done that! To me, it’s a bit like an inkblot test. A therapist holds a card, and asks; “What do you see in the patterns? Is it the face of a man, or a mask, or a butterfly spreading its wings?” I wonder, do they ever ask if it really is an image at all, or if we only see what we want to see? I look to a series of shapes and lines and perceive a man of whom so many memories are intangible. His memory still comes in bits and pieces; a line, a circle, a splash of color, but never the whole composition. I remember his quiet, studious nature, his phlegmy laugh, and the way he always called me “Peanut.” I’m still afraid to feel too deeply, to see the whole picture for what it was. 
At four years old, my fingers banged along the ivory keys of the perpetually out-of-tune grand piano in our old house. Some gentle gargantuan creature who once held this bone would weep to know that it was then only warmed by the touch of tiny primate hands. A picture of my twin brother and I, two toddlers holding hands in a blustery field, accented the chipping black painted surface. A Steinway and Sons logo embossed across the front panel, and a “My First Recital” lesson book tucked away under the foldable bench, this was my first toy. He sits on the other side of the bench, expert fingers gliding over the keys in a rendition of some Mozart or Chopin or other, while I played Hot Cross Buns on the lowest keys. To this day, I’m not quite sure if he let me get away with such musical debauchery because he found it charming, or hilarious when my Mom covered her ears and begged me, doubled over in tears of laughter, to stop. Maybe we should have gotten that piano tuned. Maybe we should have gone to Paris the summer before I turned sixteen, not after. 
The drip of IV fluid, the torturous heaving of a chest tube, monitors beeping in time with his breaths, heart beats, and he is Patient #416 in the white, starchy bed at the end of the fourth floor hallway. I’m not ready to say that six-letter word yet, although we’ve known this was coming, ever since that night that we first realized he was sick. He stumbled out of the green living room, calling out for my Mom before collapsing like a solitary tree in a forest with a sound that shattered the earth. One fireman, then two, then a third barged into the small, green room as Thomas and I tried to support his sunken form. I remember my arms shaking as I lifted an unresponsive hand, screaming inaudibly in a desperate effort to get some semblance of a response. Silence. Waiting. More waiting later in a room made for waiting. These rooms became the bain of our existence as we sat there night after night skimming mindlessly through glossy, superficial magazines, trying to put our minds elsewhere and to remain sane to some miniscule degree. White walls bore witness. The smell of hand sanitizer permeated the stale air and sickened my stomach. Buzzing fluorescent lights cast harsh shadows on the nurses and orderlies with prescription drugs who paced in and out, until the quiet, small hours of the morning. I had always hated hospitals, but this one felt almost sinister. No natural light entered those waiting rooms, not even plants could survive in that environment, so how could people?  
My Dad had never believed in god, and despite my six years of Catholic education and stiff plaid skirts, I never really did either, (though not for lack of trying), but for whatever reason on this green earth I found myself often praying during that summer. If there is a single omniscient entity that could align the energies of the cosmos or assuage human suffering, I would have taken it, but I know that he would have only smiled, shook his head and told me, (as he often did), that I was just like my god-fearing grandmother, “Old Genevieve.”
At the end of my street was a message scrawled in graffiti;
Reviens sur terre – Come back to earth. 
I spent so much time with the art in at in the Pompidou, wandering from gallery to gallery, methodical yet aimless. Maybe I had been there for an hour, or four, when I wandered into the room of the Kandinskys, with the oblong, uncomfortable benches. Facing the art, I sketched the uncanny figures in my journal and remembered what kind of gravity had pulled me here to begin with. I remember the poster framed in our kitchen of the statues of Apollo and his horses in the garden of Versailles. I remember how our bookshelves were lined with stories of the French Revolution, essays and anthologies of Voltaire, Camus, and Sartre. I know I should have read them long ago, before the day I came home to find my Mom had donated most of them in a whirl of spring cleaning–or maybe it was in a moment of spontaneity, to purge the memories of some of the worst days. I visited the grand Library of St. Genevieve alone–the building's imposing yet unassuming exterior is a thin disguise, giving no hint at the sprawling bounty of wisdom inside. First editions with gilded pages would have sneered at the threadbare copies from our meager library. Perhaps I thought that I was looking for ways to escape everything that had tied me down back in Boston, but maybe it was really about learning to come back to those ties, only to find that they weren’t as constricting as I had thought, and were in fact just trying to hold me safe, like a seatbelt. 
I fell in love with this breathtaking, ancient, ridiculously expensive city that I had always dreamed of, surrounded by kindred spirits of a breed that I had not known before crossing the Atlantic Ocean: freelance artists, struggling musicians, actors, students of engineering, immigrants and locals; people who had become my friends. Huddled in our large, black coats, with scarves bundled up to our ears, we sat along the edge of the Seine with our bottles of the cheapest red wine we could find, singing and laughing, people-watching and catching stares from passersby, daring each other to sit closer to the edge. I waved to the spectators on the bateaux-mouches which crept along the surface of the dirty river like great, heavy ducks in the chilly February night air. Swirling the red liquid in my plastic cup, I inhaled the bitter, woodsy aroma before raising it to my lips, which had been parched from the tannins from the wine, and stained a deep, cherry red. I exhaled, my breath forming a mist that quickly disappeared, and for a moment, I allowed myself to forget.  
The colors still bleed through the lines, and I haven’t worked out if the ink blots on the pages I’ve been sketching form the face of a man, or an angel, or the ocean, or two skeletons dancing by the pale light of the moon. 
















































































Title IX Case 45978: Withdrawn


I just want to be stupid she says as she undresses
halfway, the strap of her tank top falling
over pale bruises on her arms and wrists,
soft purples and sad blues of yesterday’s
roughing painted like water-colored lilies on her 
faint skin.  She calls me at midnight. Madison,


 I did it again. 


I wonder if she sees his face on a crucifix, if her wine 
on Sundays is just a glassful of her own blood, the bitter 
red she licks from her wounds, the ones he’s caused. 
He thinks it tastes sweet. If her Hosanna isn’t meant 


for God or coin of unleavened bread but to some mal-
boy whose polo she folds alone in his room while he’s
in class or grabbing a bite, just to have a second with him.
Alone. 


He speaks with spit, poisonous and disguised


as ADD, OCD, dysgraphia, schizophrenia, manic 
depression, whatever diagnosis she believes
this time. This bruise. This tea bowl of tears 
that she will reheat in the kettle and sip once again,
or chug, or inject, whatever seeps into the bloodstream 


faster. I suggest AA, NA, CA, whatever letters can pull
her out of the pit. She says I’m done. She’s lost her appetite
but I’ve learned those words meant she’s hungry for more.
































House-warming Party of One


This body is a ranch house
not known for its coziness. 
Inside, I can hear everything


Noises like cries
are echoing within,
but my guests don’t notice.


Today I found the culprit
– a bird’s nest in the garage –
so I’m finally evicting them


The mom and her two speckled eggs
not enough for a birthday cake
or a breakfast I wouldn’t eat.


But tenants don’t have to feed their hosts
and they’re moving out anyway. 
________________


Fraud


I am one of them, and not. 
In a room full of people
        sophisticated, intelligent, capable
I am the odd man, quiet in a corner
Who listens to words 
incomprehensible 
Struggling to piece together a sentence
To match.
Ink bleeds through pages upon
Pages upon
Pages, scratch marks and fat blots of 
Black and blue and red and pink.
As I satisfy myself with one the moment passes
Never to return.


I can feel my participation grade dying.


Invidia hooks her vert nails into me as I stare and wonder
        how the hell can an accounting major
        do my job better than me?
Why I’m not speaking up
Letting my theories and visions breathe.
Instead they wither and suffocate while I smile.
What the hell is the point in thinking
if my thoughts find no release?
Why do I bother
To write and
To read
When I
        clearly cannot match them
never speak my mind?


I confine my analysis to the cage
Of academic essays, literary works
And leave the talk to the professionals while I
Pretend it doesn’t bother me 
When I tell them of my passions.
Ignore their reactions
        Wide eyes and slack jaws, tones of 
        Disbelief dotted with sarcasm and
        Pity
As they force a smile, say
“I’d never take you for an English major!”


Show me the work of Byron
And I will note the beauty
And despair of an affair come to pass
        Though only in my mind.
Share your work with me.
I will fall silent in awe,
Enraptured by the grace of written word
And images that pull tears from my stubborn eyes.
Ask me,
And you will find a feeble fool
Frightened and tense, tongue twisted—
All I want to say dies on my lips
Becomes a tangled jumble of nonsense
as I fear being found out
        what to say of the rhyme or
        rhythm or syntax
        what do they mean
So instead I offer a sheepish grin and say
“That was nice.”
The disappointment in your eyes is matched only
by the pink tinge of my cheeks that screams
        why can’t I get this right?!
Of embarrassment, regret, frustration,
Loathing more bitter than the taste of coffee,
Burnt beans on my twisted tongue.


I am a fraud among my peers.
Lost, scrambling for answers that come
So easily to them
        why not for me?
Too afraid to let them know
to let them feel the tremble of my heart or
the way my thoughts blow
scattered on the wind
Never complete, always fractured, incoherent and
insensible.
Instead I wait in silence with a synthetic smile
and
        when at last it’s over
retreat into the world my mind has made
Encapsulated within the pages
of sticky notes and sketchbooks,
Notepads and journals
Where I am the master
        or at least I think I am?
and where my pen screams louder
than I could ever hope to be.         
        












POEM ABOUT HIM BEING PERFECT AND ME BEING AFRAID 2.0


i'm thinking about


ice   cubes               m e l t i n g
does          it         start       with 
the       air       around     them? 
making       particles        move 
fasterandfasteruntiltheycan’t 
keep    up    so    water     drips 


d
o
w
n


licking neighboring 
planes            ttttttil
tttttongues    freeze 
up                    again
is this  why  they  get 
stuck            together?
the palpable frigidity 
keeping                   them 
solid        and        sturdy
like the opposite of why
we huddle together  for 
warmth      and        hug
               hard   at            funerals 
or   why   i      lean                 to  you 
every time  i    get     like           this  
every           time  i       start          to 
evaporate      into                       tiny 
molecules into  something viscous
and      volatile     and        a f r a i d 




i’m searching for the  s p a c e  between
too         hot         and         too           cold 
where you can hold me in  bed at night 
without  me     wanting    to             peel
my                 own           skin               off 




what i'm asking is: what happens when i get         so 
shaky        so    s c a t t e r e d  so  vaporous         and                         small  that you can't hold me together anymore


do we both crack?                                 
or do i just melt away




The Langlois Bridge at Arles


My face looks like an almond in the Rhone: eyes pulled tall
and cheeks dug out to shadowed holes. It’s water pure
* unpolluted. 
        The river flows down to the Camargue,
winding between gallops of horses still grown wild. 


Mère said they built the bridge for the sky, so it wouldn’t be 
so hard to reach. Père said they built it for the boats, 
so they had somewhere to go.


                               If I squint my eyes, the brick 
reminds me of the Romans: genius constructs of a Coliseum
no longer used for its intended purposes. 


                                        My hands 
cup the water: fingers skinny and skin stretched thin over 
bone that grew too long. 
                        Piano hands. Painter hands.


But Mère raised me with fields as my pillows, seeds to sow.
My hands are no longer used for their intended purposes. So 
I tuck my fingers in, nails biting into palm, and scoop up


the strange reflection looking at me. 












































The Yellow House 


I.
April, 1888


Spring was the rented rooms of a yellow house
the size of my heart. Two bedrooms on ground
floor - a workshop and kitchen upstairs. Four
chambers.
         The sun got hotter and I painted it. 
Ribbons of rays I wished would shine into 
me. Run through me. Twist around organs 
and the dark-wolf thoughts of the night. 


Make me yellow, too. 


II.
October, 1888


Fall climbed in at night through open 
Shutters - so did He. Man with artist 
hands. He saw the sky as a cracked
croissant, melted butted when Dusk
came. 
        Nine weeks and He was my 
pirate. Pillaged the apartment now 
beating with the two of us. Paid rent in
late nights we hid from Arles: his hands
creating a new picture of the body I used 
to be. Acrylic accusations. 


III.
June, 1889


He is a dark wolf that sleeps in my heart,
sleeps in the guest room I gave him. 
He paints me into stillness - living inside 
my heart. Bedroom arteries pulsing.




IV.
December, 1889


The Sun made me sell the Yellow House.
It leaked its buttery golden hues into the night
sky. He is the Yellow House, made it so I could 
no longer paint the stars. I’m not his, I’m not


yellow. 








Magdalene 


I. 
In the middle of many 
ages, of brothers drunk 
on blood of the martyred, 
books in hand, borrowed shoes, 


“There were so many of us then,” 
you’ve almost forgotten their names, but 
I can see their shadow in your eyes, 
each taunt on your lips. If only  


one could turn back ignorance, rewind 
the dial with the stream in its path. 
But you’ve stopped seeing yourself


and started seeing them in the morning. 
Their eyes are mine, too much 
for you, you don’t want to remember 
all lost so you could gain, the rocks 


thrown by guards at the border, 
a young girl shaking past men 
sworn to protect anyone but her, 


anyone born centimeters north 
of battery separating country 


from itself, sibling         sibling.  
Where do you go?  


II. 
During the weeks after you died, I take my place on the train 
amongst siblings I know only from the hunched shape they make 
over their phones. A congregation of sorts, we sway to the god 
of rim and rubber. You would’ve hated him. I remember 


my mother said you beat your children with rosary beads. 
That’s why none take the Eucharist on their tongues anymore. It is February, 
and each naked tree that rushes past my window reminds me of you, 
when you hugged me I could feel the hollow of your body. 


That’s why you fell, I shivered from the wind
that ran past. I want to say you are watching over me, 
through the eyes of your china figurines. But I know you 


aren’t there. Where does a body go 
when it isn’t a body anymore? At night I pray 
and your voice sings out. 


III. 
Days like this, when I’m not sure  
whether to walk among fishermen 
or tax collectors, zealots or tradesmen–I wonder 
if you bowed to wash their feet in the street. Your hair turned 


their psalms in prayer. I wish I could pick up 
the phone and call you, pull each cord 
closer for comfort. I ask how to make scones. 


IV. 
We can cross the country now 
in record time. There are no guards, 


no passports, no car bombs, just how you dreamed
during The Troubles. Your brothers live 


next to freed captors, their ashes scattered 
in Bonnahill and Belleek.         If that didn’t mean giving up heaven. 
________________


Manner, Männer


I remember the soft, 
waffery, hazelnutty, chocolatey 
crunch of my first Manner cookies, 
given to me and my sister as we kneeled 
outside the local mountainside church 
where maybe seven years later my cousin would be baptized, and I 
remember the cold wet air against my heavily jacketed frame, 
all of which I would think about 
from my grandparents' breakfast room several years later 
as I tried at 13 to be nostalgic 
but the cookies got caught in the poke of my braces wire 
and turned to cement inside my bloody cheek, 
and I'd remember one memory,
the first, 
through the lens of the second and both 
through the third when 
I was handed a square, pink package of Manner a month ago in Vienna, 
by a kind blue eyed George 
with a fake British accent 
and insecurity too vast for his small stature, 
a year younger than me
and saddled with the absolute biggest crush, 
and I'd think of him and the braces and the church and my grandmother 
who first introduced me to the cookies on that rainy late afternoon, 
as I ate the pack that George gave me 
with a different boy 
by the pool a few days later, 
before I fell asleep 
beside him under the sun. 



































Surfaces


Like the old wooden table 
worn smooth with years of use
I have visited you, decorated you, 
laughed over you, leaned on you, 
ran my hand over the nicks and grooves of you.
I have overlooked you, I have needed you, 
I have draped my weight upon you. 
Like the table, you stood solid. 
Dependable, indifferent. 


I should break you into firewood, 
sell you for something glass. 
Transparency is modern, 
even if it leaves fingerprints like reminders
and comes smooth from factory, 
not memory. 


I could buy a plastic folding 
and have it sit rickety,
hollow when knocked, 
where the old oakwood left
imprints on the pretty carpet. 
I could want you cheap, 
nothing to consider or care for,
easy to clean, to fix, 
to stash away and bring out for company, 
to discard.  


But maybe I'll scrap the table altogether, 
sit on the floor unsupported,
in the too-empty 
defamiliarized space; 
The room will look bigger
and from the carpet the windows will be taller, 
brighter, and viewed from below they will show only the sky. 
I'll pretend you were never there, 
try not to lean back 
absent minded, absent table leg I'll keep leaning
until my back rests on the carpet 
and I look at the chairs, who look
at each other expectant, crowded 
yet purposeless and incomplete. 


The carpet is softer than my solid, lovely
wooden table, more intriguing to run my fingers through, 
willing to support my frame
as my gaze, 
unencumbered by the absent table's dark underbelly
and tangled mess of legs, 
floats up to the sunlit ceiling. 


Blood Test


Blue Button
It was a routine blood test. Results were negative. She spends the next night writhing under pale pink, sweat-soaked, polyester sheets. Beads of perfumed perspiration drip trails and tributaries down her damp skin. A sharp, pointed pain shoots through the crook of her arm between forearm and bicep, lurching her awake. She brushes her fingers over the spot, feeling a distinct, cold swelling. Frantically, she fumbles for the light switch and sits up with a start. Her mouth gapes in horror as she watches what appears to be an iridescent blue button the size of a dime fight its way to the surface of her skin. She swallows a panicked, garbled scream, certain she must be dreaming, delirious with fever. Covering her eyes, she peaks cautiously through partitioned fingers, holding her jagged breath. It’s still there.  A deep, hot jolt of fear courses through her veins like molten lava. Thoughts swirl in her mind, a cacophonous frenzy, clamoring over and crashing into one another, each vying for attention. She forces herself to take a deep breath, but it comes out shaky and she can’t steady it. Fingers twitching, itching to push the button, yet she refrains. She reflects on yesterday, yearning for clues, anything to latch onto. The quick, white swish of fresh ironed lab coat, the melodic clicking and scribbling of felt-tipped pen on clip board, the hushed tone and quiet arguing outside her hospital room. Too terrified to bend her arm lest the button get pressed, heart beating in rhythm with the swift hooves of a racehorse, she finishes the night with eyes stapled wide open. 


Pressed
She felt her veins expand to heavy tubes through her once sun-soaked skin, now a translucent milky white. They pulsate with her heart, a steady thrum like the beat of an ominous marching band, processing into darkness. The blue tubes snake through her body and emit a dull glow, muted by clusters of cells. Blood swirls through them, like water through an enclosed amusement park slide. She can almost hear it sloshing through her. The urge to cut herself open and investigate what’s inside consumes her. 
















This is Growing Up
 
Il capte rien           a body moves past
in plastic             that’s the way it always is,
isn’t it live a full life  unfilled
life           die vacuum sealed as the microwave
dinners on mom’s busy nights             wheeled
and forgotten eyes stare back in the dark         the marbles
of frozen fish in the freezer section
at Costco            I loved that section as a child
poked my pointer finger through the plastic
felt the scales  fingered the spine          served best
over the grill   burnt embers break
breath over coal             whisper in my ears         spark
holes in my sleeves         singe my hair that chemical
smell   Formaldehyde                in seventh grade I learned to slice
open a frog and count the eggs inside             millions of pearls
gray as smoke clamored over the body
like looking at my own in the mirror
of the locker room         the teachers removed
it              the girls took too long to get dressed
after gym class                C’est la faute de ma mere
Merde   shit in French
but more beautiful         C’est vrai, non?
































CANDY NECKLACE.


I am
sock-jawed
strong, strung
through candy
rings, each one
bitten and
sucked loose,
spit dribbles on
the neck of the
day. I am depleted,
my raw wire making
tiny squiggles against
sweet, wet skin.














































In the Early Hours of Saturday Morning 


“Youth is golden
and eternal if we embrace it.”

Was scrawled hastily,
yet not entirely
insincerely,
at the bottom 
of a gas bill
pinned to the fridge,
as was the custom,
when only one among us was to take on the evening,
riding the wave of dispelled inhibition,
And it made me smile as I wrote it.
And it made them smile as they read it.




































































The Cynic on Art


I'm burning your poem.
There. I said it.
I'm burning your poem.
Most people would think it too...
impolite.
Or they would be entirely too busy
to go so far
to verify, to rectify
this abomination of a beloved art.
They would say,
“Jesus christ in a sidecar! How could you?
Why would you even--
To jot down some poorly punctuated
over-pretentious
quotable nothings on a napkin
and pepper this prestigious, preposterous,
paragraph with ponderous, putrid pastiche!
These self-obsessed black and white photos
are killing me!”
Yet they do nothing.
But not I—no, not I
I am a crusader
and like any warrior for the greater--
nay, greatest—good I will do
what no other would dare.
I'm burning your poem.
You can't write.
Stop fooling yourself.
This is absolute garbage.
Get out of my office.
And have a lovely day.  






























Confectioner’s Remorse


poprocks™️ in lungs
can have this effect
this –can’t breathe,
bee stings, and
scraped knees within–


one glance at nostalgia
peels open my throat,
pours in a new pack,
and blows me a kiss
while I suffocate in sugar
________________


If Puberty Packed Lunches


grape stems like skeletons
fruits plucked off
by eager hands and lips


popped into mouths and
rolled around on youthful tongues
before being crushed


to squirt seeds so small and meaningless
they could be old hopes
or wet dreams
________________


Reveille
 
The blue anxiety of an unfarmed park
has us asking what the day will bring.
We are grounded, here, with our neighbors
tethered to leashes of spiteful dogs.
Heedless, they tangle us, but we do not
panic at our mingled compasses. We consent
to the people of this trafficked playground,
if only for an hour, until we respond to
the summons of unbreathable towers,
tightening collars, marshes of the governed – 
that silver heartbreak, where prospectors travel
far from home for promised riches.
Bully nation, this is, but we submit,
vow to serve it through decades of
disease to cultivate a glass recovery.
But here, in this raw sunshine, where we lap
at the groundwater that’s never tasted cement,
we clutch our coffee and obey our dogs
barking at the guard across the street unlocking the DMV.












































DSM 5


PART I


1. Inflated self-esteem or grandiosity.
Anyone would be lucky to have me 
or to hold me 
or to fuck me
or to love me. 
                I am my own God.


2. Decreased need for sleep (e.g., feels rested after only 3 hours of sleep).
I haven’t slept more than 17 hours during the past 4 nights,
but I still don’t feel tired. 
My legs are starting to ache from standing, 
but I still don’t sit down. 


3. More talkative than usual or pressure to keep talking.
Hey stranger, I know I’ve avoided you the past 2 months but I was wondering 
                How is your sister doing?
                Is your dad still yelling?
                I think part of me still loves you. 
                        Sorry, that was weird. 


4. Flight of ideas or subjective experience that thoughts are racing.
Did I remember to turn the light off?
I need to water my plants but I need to send this letter more. 
I don’t think I can shower, it’s always too hot. 
Was the light ever even on? Where’s the closest mailbox?


5. Distractibility (i.e., attention too easily drawn to unimportant or irrelevant external stimuli), as reported or observed.
The same blank screen has been open for the past 2 hours.
I have spent the last 45 minutes figuring out what time it is in Bangkok. 
You love Thai food. I adore the sound of your skin. 
The screen is still staring at me and all I can do is stare back. 
It’s a contest. 


6. Increase in goal-directed activity (either socially, at work or school, or sexually) or psychomotor agitation.
Picking until I see the color red. Peeling when it turns brown. 
I planned lunch with 3 people this week for the first time ever. 
The library is my new dormitory. Maybe this time I’ll get A’s. 
I’m chasing that 4.0 GPA but it runs to your bedroom and I lock the door. 


7. Excessive involvement in activities that have a high potential for painful consequences (e.g., engaging in unrestrained buying sprees, sexual indiscretions, or foolish business investments).
Touch me like you know me. 
Touch me like you know me. 
Touch me like you know me.
Let’s pretend this is love. 






PART II


1. Depressed mood most of the day, nearly every day.
        All encompassing, heavy, suffocating. 
Vengeful: shallow and hollow. 
I want nothing more than to sink in this moment.
My body floats at the surface and I wait for waves 
to fill my lungs. I inhale. I cough it out. 


2. Markedly diminished interest or pleasure in all, or almost all, activities, nearly every day.
I’m sorry that I can’t get ready for you and that it hurts me, 
and that even when you’re going down, I’m still up in my head. 
I just don’t like it right now and I know that’s weird for you.
I hope you can understand that it’s me and not you. 
                         I’m sorry, okay?


3. Significant weight loss when not dieting or weight gain. 
They told me that I don’t look like myself.
I can’t see changes if I don’t look in the mirror. 
I haven’t brushed my hair for three days. 
I suppose I forgot to eat too.  


4. Insomnia or hypersomnia nearly every day.
I sleep more than 17 hours during day,
only getting up to go to class and to eat one meal. 
I’m falling asleep in the library. 
I never stop feeling tired. 


5. Psychomotor agitation or retardation nearly every day 
        Legs are moving up and down, down and up,
        up and down. The table is chattering. 
        Hands are shaking left and right, right and left, 
        left and right. The cup of coffee is vibrating. 


6. Feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt nearly every day. 
I buried my worries in bruises and bed sheets.
It doesn’t wash off in the shower. 
No one this filthy is worth anything.
I did this to myself. I deserved it. 
All of it. 


7. Recurrent thoughts of death, recurrent suicidal ideation, a suicide attempt, or a specific plan for committing suicide.
The thumbtacks pressed into my palms are 
painting new veins down the side of my arms.  
I’ve thought about it a lot, you know? 
My suicide notes always turn into love letters. 






















Origami


It is time to pass the crowded-subway
test, a day I have been trained for
since I was a five-year-old bent
on growing up. Today I am 
to prove myself a woman 
learned in the art of 
origami: I fold 
myself down 
eight times 
into a
Line.










































































Bridges


I’m still trying to learn to keep track of time 
as I coax my mother’s lemon-stained violin, 
dustily tuned a quarter-tone sharp,
to narrate the mead-drunken wedding 
of a peasant, a farmer who will soon fall 
into the swirls of the River Vltava. 


When I first crossed over the Vltava,
née Moldau, I was searching for a TYME
machine, which is what I call it when I fall
back into old accents. Two girls played the violin
and a couple fled from their wedding
with something old, something new, something sharp,


like my earliest memory: my mother’s voice sharp
in a hotel by the river, not the Vltava
then but the Mississippi. I was at my first wedding
with bows in my hair, blowing bubbles of time
while Pachelbel’s Canon trickled from a violin.
I saw it was elegant and dull to fall


in love, and I couldn’t wait for fall
and Canada geese. I’d watch the sharp
V wing by and think about violets and violins
and, had I known of it then, the Vltava. 
Since that day, I have been saving my time
to deposit in a hope chest for the wedding


I’d rather not have, a wedding
full of family, friends, and people who fall
in between. I check the time
again and it’s seven-thirty sharp
so I have fifteen more minutes on the Vltava,
riding the crests and the rests on my violin.


I have never noticed how my thinnest violin
string glints silver-white like a wedding
band or the sun on the Vltava.
I have a dozen companions to fall
back upon, so I let F-sharp
go and breathe in. Then it is time


to wipe my violin clean and let a bow hair fall,
too yellow for a wedding veil, too sharp
for a cat to eat. The Vltava will call to me another time.






From Our Family to Yours


It perches on the undusted mantelpiece, a smiling family 
about to take off, poised to propel itself into the living 
room’s most frequented airway but choosing instead 
to linger because the view from anticipation 
is guaranteed to surpass what comes next
(a turbulent descent, as close to life
as photograph can come).


Somehow the glossy rectangle has remained 
in place, leaning against outmoded wallpaper,
through three seasons, seven months,
two birthday parties, one near-divorce,
never calling attention to itself or slipping 
into the hairline obscurity between wall and mantel,
though even the showpiece, the framed 
family portrait taken by a real photographer, 
has tipped over more than once,
to be rescued from the ignominy
of the floor, its glass still intact.
 
Up there, Season’s Greetings accompany a clipart Christmas 
tree and an equally-large Messiah, infant no longer, 
a dutiful citation of the origin of this ritual of distributing 
benevolent tidings via Walgreens photo cards 
and preprinted labels. The pixelated Christ 
wears an expression of equanimity 
and makes no mention of past failures 
to reciprocate greeting-card goodwill—
because he has forgiven or because he will not.


Among the December armada, this card was unremarkable
and still is, but for the oddity of standing alone,
like one of its five posed figures, many years from now, 
on her own July mantelpiece,
wearing a hat that no longer matches
and gazing outward, unmoving.














Dream Poem
(a Pantoum)


I fall headlong into darkness,
My watch ticks too fast.
I stand at the top of the stairs
and cry into my teddy bear.


My watch ticks too fast.
Nonno tends to the grill.
I cry into my teddy bear
while Nonna toils over stove.


Nonno tends to the grill
as I stand up in my pajamas.
Nonna toils over the stove
at the bottom of the stairs.


I stand up in my pajamas,
listen to the phone call
at the bottom of the stairs—
Yes, this is she.


I listen to the phone call.
Two whole fish fry, scales and eyes crackling.
Yes, this is she.
Skin sizzles, roasted peppers and eggplant.


Two whole fish fry, scales and eyes crackling.
In my dreams, I tumble toward darkness
and skin sizzles, roasted peppers and eggplant.
Behind me, the lights go out.

In my dreams, I tumble toward darkness,
The couch with leather, peeling skin sits empty
Behind me, the lights go out.
A half-finished game of solitaire sits on the table.


The couch with leather, peeling skin sits empty.
I never hit the ground.
A half-finished game of solitaire sits on the table.
Nonna gasps.


I never hit the ground.
I stand at the top of the stairs.
Nonna gasps.
I fall headlong into darkness.