1. party at my house but the only music is the lord of the rings soundtrack
[PB][JG][BR]
i read the lord of the rings
while listening to the lord of the rings soundtrack
damn...
man just went to the studio and said
i'm howard shore bitch
here are the slaps**




**slaps |  noun  |  music you can go dummy hard to


























































2. Golden Coins
[SG][PB] GL
 
I know I am not the first
to fill my eyes
with the hot orange blaze,
 
the deep blush of the treeline—
as passionate as daylilies in August,
but whole rooftops of them.
 
Each year anew, they enchant me 
and I am only one man,
and how am I to resist
the sweeping canopy?
 
The hill waves her elegant fingers,
shudders with a full-bodied roar, dons
her chain-mail of golden coins,
all little gems in the great net. 
 






































3. The Wedge
[PB] [PC] GL


Out, out—beyond the static picture frame
Landscape, a wedge sits on the horizon
Line. Obscured, silent in the quiet day.
Like a blip on the canvas screen
It sits unnoticed.


It spires out of the wooded tree line,
Which snakes across the window pane.


The wedge breaks into the air, a subtle skewer, a shrike beak.


It lurks there
Just out of arm’s reach


Like a haunted mansion, an October house, the tower awaits,
Wrought with anxiety.
Modern architecture pierces time and becomes
Victorian, when seen from afar.


The night lights up. A beacon.


The dark clouds turn to bright fog, emanating
Out of the tower, the blasting star
Explodes the night away.


The mystical fixture in the night sky,
Gatsby’s Green Light,
Turned dark and landlocked.


How must it look from up close?
From here, bright letters stream across the night
And refract through the pane


That wedge doesn’t look so bright
In the daylight reason.
It turns back into a casino


just out of view, but still in sight.


4. Juhu
[PB] [PC] GL


I haven’t slept in almost two days, so I’m doing it now.


My stomach was in a                 knot
right for dinner
right for kulfi at the temple
right for coconut water
right for an evening stroll
On Juhu sand


Many Bollywood movie stars live in Juhu, and my cousin is one of them.
Divya walks my family down to the beach
And buys us each a coconut from a man with dirty feet.
As we start moving down the narrow stretch,
I stray away, just a little closer to the edge.
In this waking dream, the sky turns blue.


To my left stands the draping tree line, 
A Partition of swaying palm fronds,
Patrolled by a platoon of feral dogs: evidence of the metropolis beyond.
I imagine studios and slums, monuments and morgues, running on behind the
curtain.


To my right, under thick smog and the dying embers of a sapphire sun,
Stinking foam and brine emerge,
Marooned on this pariah’s cove, too impure for ebony waves,
Stained by the setting sun’s pale moonlight.


I keep walking along
This tract of coarse ground and wet trash
The entire world at my feet
The past blowing on the back of my neck.


How did I get here?
So far from Dunkin Donuts and brown Boston snow on tarmac


I’m on a disparate plane.
My education–
Through smells of incense and spices
Through sights of brown and blue faces
And Salt Marches
And map lines
–Couldn’t prepare me for my Birth-Rite.


Sleepless, I’m an invader in my own mind.
Peering through the looking glass
A colonizer passing the Gateway to an alien world.


Donald Trump in the Taj
Bombay Star and Crown Jewels
My motherland, the wrong side for British Raj
Lives blown off in light suitcases with everything to lose


Just as sea salt and beef tallow made my grandparents refugees,
And made Divya a star,
Those men–
Square-rigged and smallpocked–
Found a New Indian,
And called me an American.


They tied this tired knot, boiling in sweet dairy and tropical fluid
On the other side of my world,
In a trendy beachside neighborhood,
With my tween awkwardness and my stupid coconut,
I’m standing over a pile of bloated corpses
And shattered dreams.


It’s a foreign sun setting over the lapping waves,
A heavier air filling my lungs,
A sharper earth between my toes,
Than I have ever known before.


Reading slowly the lines drawn in the sand
Forever a stranger in my own land.








5.  The City Impasse
[SG] [PC][PB]


The Prudential Center sprawls out 
massive, now, in front of me


buildings that adorn 
the city's heights. Spirals flame up from underground—lit 
eternal somber blue. An entombed stone. 
An embedded letter. 


Let us climb, now, the road to hope.


All the roads lay behind me faded 
into one long playlist. An endless tread
of repeated patterns, playing on
and on and on


Computerized, I ran through.
Cogs turned and propelled my legs.
Circuits broke and zoned me out.


But at the silk sylvan ribbon, 
the fallen achievement lays
—the finish line—where trees broke through the street
and buildings blended into a reflected sky,
there I won, I summited 


the road.












6. Unseasonal Blooms
[SG] [PC] GL


A small girl with a horsehair brush
held loosely in her small palm
and laden with dazzling yellow
has run through the woods
at the mouth of the stream.
 
She has used the same hue
as she does in March,
when egg-yolk bells of daffodils
break through the snow,
when walls of forsythias burst
into bows and frills.
 
The subjects of her carefree hand
glow into the understory,
golden branches over thickets
of weary, dusty leaves, quivering
in the new winds, waiting
 
in the warm light of dusk
shining from across the water
to drift away, to be unmoored.
















7. by falling we learn to go safely
[PC] [SG]  LF
“It is either that, or it is me. It is your choice.” 
Daiyu didn’t know what to say, so all she did was sit. The state knew what was right. After all, the rules were in place for a reason, people were starving, and she should’ve known better. Her village, her country, would not make it through if people like her did not cooperate. Knowing this, she nodded and let her head hang down before her for a brief moment. She then lifted her head up, looking directly into her mother’s eyes. 
Her words kept crossing Daiyu’s mind, pounding at the threshold of her consciousness as she quietly walked the path across the riverbeds. The sky was abnormally clear, with stars dancing above her and the moon, sturdy as ever, illuminating the path in front of her. Usually in her village the sky was covered. There was less smog there than in the cities, but pollution can never truly be tamed, and so it spread mercilessly to the countryside. 
She quickly looked down. The white blanket covering the basket was moving. She fiddled with the blanket and eventually switched the weight of the basket to her other arm. 
Her mother and her had bought the blanket from the market. It was knit rather poorly, bought from the seedy woman with tangled black hair and seething brown eyes who always had an odd smile on her face. It was frayed all along the edges, with knots already forming around the middle, but it swaddled the length of the basket comfortably and so it did its job. The seething woman always attempted to overcharge them, this time claiming its quality suited a king, saying they were incredibly lucky to buy it for such a fair price. Of course with her mother’s equally cold gaze the price was brought down. When they finally left, Daiyu heard the woman spit on the ground in the place they had been seconds before. In the many times they did business with her, the woman always ended up bringing the cost down. In return they always bought her items. It was a relationship none of them wanted to continue, but none of them were willing to end, knowing they had something to offer each other. 
Daiyu didn’t like the seething woman. Her coldness frightened her. She also didn’t like traveling at night. It was odd for her to not hear the constant revs of the motorbikes starting their trek into the city, the clanging and clatter of dishes hitting a table in the shops, and the old men boisterously chatting on the steps of their houses. Now the town was almost silent. She was only comforted by the light of the moon.
One thing that didn’t disappear was the constant buzzing of the mosquitos. She was careful to only move one arm while swatting them away, keeping her other arm almost perfectly still with the basket tucked near her arm. 
Most nights at this time she would already be fast asleep, worn from the day at work. She almost couldn’t remember a time she had been up so late. Maybe when she was younger. When she was younger. Yes, when she was seven she often stayed up late completing her work for school. She spent most of her time during the late afternoon coming back from the city to her home. Her mother would watch her as she came back into the house, asking if she had finished her work on the journey back. She never had, but she always pretended as if she did. Later in the night she would light a candle near her bed and spend the night hovering near the small thing, scribbling away with flourishes mimicking the soothing push and pull of waves. Not long after, her mother decided her brother would take over her studies, as he had finally come of age and her family couldn’t afford both of their educations. She would work and he would go to school. 
She came upon the village beside hers. The buildings were nearly identical to her own, many harboring the same scrawled writings of the state, shimmering like blood in the moonlight. One is best.
She quickened her pace. 
After passing through another village, she walked past a shop she recognized. It was a shop she worked at when she was younger. She remembered sweeping the tiny place in complete humidity, trying to ignore the water building on her forehead and the pain in her back from bending over. The shopkeeper there was ruthless and old, but somewhat admirable for his sternness.
Here. She arrived.
She looked across at the white building. It was guarded by a simple wall with only a small gate enclosing the perimeter. It was smaller than she imagined, and way more tidy. 
It looked quite similar to Junxi’s house. When they had first met, he was standing under a cherry blossom tree. He was looking at some box, holding it up to the sun. She was only passing by, but he turned his head and caught her staring. He beckoned her over and she hesitantly came closer until she stopped at the gate. It was only the gate that stood in between them. He asked her to help him read what was on the box, but the writing was too small for her to decipher. She apologized, but he still smiled. He walked back into his yard, plucked an unopened cherry blossom, and placed it in her palm through the gate. His kindness made her never want to leave his side. When she married him, she didn’t think she had ever been as happy before. 
Their wedding ceremony was lovely. She wore a stitched red dress, embroidered with gold flowers and swirling petals. They kneeled next to each other before their small altar. They gave respect to their family, first praying for Junxi’s ancestors and his departed parents, then for her own lineage and her mother, and then for their descendants. They wished for a son who would be happy and healthy, and who would grow up hardworking and strong.
She looked down at the basket.
It was against her judgement. Her mother told her not to. Her mother said it would make everything worse, and that was the last thing she wanted. Make everything worse. No, she really didn’t want that. But her impulses, everything in her body needed to look. Right after everything happened, her mother had taken it away, careful to keep it in a place away from her. She had had to do so much just to convince her mother she could do this on her own, that she wouldn’t need her coming with her. It had been silvery sweet words that got her mother to finally ease off. It was all a lie, of course. She didn’t know why she did it, she never lied, it was against her being to lie, but she did.
She set the basket down, kneeling on the road to meet its level.
The basket showed its age clearly. It was worn and discolored from its years of holding fruit.
Daiyu’s mouth grew dry, her hands wiry and skeletal, her pulse ardently beating against her skin. She unwrapped the blanket.
And saw what her mother never wanted her to truly see. 
Her eyes were closed at first but slowly opened. She was the moon. She had a circular face and wide irises swimming in ponds of black sky. Daiyu felt her eyes burn and reached to hold her. 
Her skin was so soft.
All it would take was one decision. She could leave her village, try to move deep in the heart of the city. She would have to leave her husband and her family, it would be the only way to keep their integrity. She could get an apartment, dangling above the skyline, and get a new job where she could wear pearls that graced her neck. It would be an amazing life, she would cook for her, clean for her, all so she would have a better life than Daiyu. 
She was her daughter, her child, and she would never abandon her. But she wasn’t ready to sacrifice her mother yet either. 
It is either that, or it is me.
How could her mother force her to do this? How could her country? She couldn’t help but question what she was doing and why. She knew what had to be done, but looking here, looking at eyes full of stars cradled snugly in her arms, what was she supposed to do?
She knew her own fate, and she knew what it meant if she tried to escape it, especially for her husband, for her family. The village officials would come. It meant fines, destruction of their house, public shame. Disgrace. Embarrassment. Isolation. How could she do that to her family?
And the state. The state knew what it was doing. She had to put her faith in the state. It was protecting its people, serving them in the only way it could. 
She had no choice. 
Daiyu set her daughter back in the basket, tears inundating onto the road. 
She had no choice. 
Daiyu folded the blanket over her, bringing herself down to kiss her one last time. She left the perimeter of the white building, walking back along the path she had come. She walked past silent houses, dark with only a sliver of prevailing light leaving streaks on the tiled roofs, past small brick bridges bringing together two sides of a village, and small red lanterns lining the windows, swaying ever so slightly in the wind. She walked into her house in a daze. She took off her shoes and entered her bedroom. She slid into bed next to Junxi, forcing herself to stay silent and sleep. That night, she dreamed of falling cherry blossoms twirling in the wind next to a river, of falling stars wildly shooting across the night sky, energetic and happy in their path. That night she dreamed of a girl with a face of the moon, smiling, staring directly into Daiyu’s eyes, laughing as she swung away into the night. 
She had no choice.










































8. To Tidy Up this Heartbreak in Five Parts
[PC]  LF [PB]


I
These butterflies have sharp wings.
I let them slice me open
as long as they still fly.


II
In a bar in Quebec there is a
boy that looks like you wrapped
around a girl that looks like me.


III
I want to write a poem that
forensics couldn’t trace back to you,
that doesn’t have your fingerprints all over it.


IV
At 6 AM I wake up with you
stinging on my tongue, like
I’ve bitten evergreen.


V
My pen traces your name over
and over until it runs out of ink and I realize
I’ve been writing about something else all along.


























9. If You Love Me, Wake Me 
[PC] LF [PB]


Six AM must be your witching hour– 
three different times you’ve woken me up 
to the heat of your hands 
coiling around my wrist. 

I don’t know if I should
chalk it up to the makeshift serotonin
I swallow from prescription pill bottles


or put my faith in the superstition that says maybe
you’re dreaming of me too. 






















































10. Defiance
EKS [BR] [PC]
Wordless reactions,
we’re up late discussing
the ways we hope we will die,
with black holes and washed out
hazy blurred ways our minds work
that we will never understand, as if a
war goes on between the walls of our heads,
goes on like waxing and waning and
warnings from authorities who don’t
even know who we are or
where our thoughts go
when we’re
without
the right
words.




























11. Hard-to-Admits 
EKS [PC] LF
I
When my therapist leans back in her armchair
and asks me about the hospital, I don’t tell her 
that I wish I would lose it again
so I could hide out there for a while.


II
Sometimes when I’m driving home down 271, 
and my headlights are the only ones
reflecting on the lane lines, I can hear
the first boy I ever loved telling me to go faster.


III
It doesn’t matter how many love letters you write 
yourself if you look in the mirror and consider 
all the things you’d take a knife to. 


IV
I still imagine the hands of a man I’ve never met
on the parts of my body I hate, 
that my limbs might be whole once
sunk into his own.


V
I used to stockpile lethal trinkets in hiding places,
sewing needles, extra-strength Tylenol, razor blades–
but I feel indifferent towards graves now.




























12. Before communism came to my country,
EKS [PC] LF
I used to walk beneath arches
carved with stone angels. Pillars stood like guard dogs, 
friendly only to those who belonged at their base.


Oak trees were in residence along worn cobblestone, 
and my daughters, not yet teens, wove through them like yarn 
through a loom on our way to buy a week’s worth of bread. 


Church bells called to nearby cathedrals, 
every hour on the hour– the steady heartbeat of home
resonating against the walls of damp alleys.  


In winter, our children wore long wool coats.
My husband and I, leather gloves to break the wind. 


After communism came to my country,
I stitched burlap bags from chicken feed into skirts and shorts,
preparation for the first American summer. 












































13. Moonlit Memories
EKS [BR] [PC]
“The moon looks rather bright tonight,”
You weren’t even looking at it, gaze upon the waterline.
“I try not to look anymore.
There’s too many stories
held in the stars today.”
A second, just a second;
would it hurt?


I’m submerged by thoughts
I shouldn’t think about anymore.
You can’t see me anymore.
Your hand fastens my lips
and it’s silent.






















































14. Praise for My Mitochondria
[PC] LF [PB]


Praise for my mitochondria, for its mangled ribosomes and pyruvate.
Praise for my mitochondria, for the web of women it’s woven.
Praise for my mitochondria, for the collective motherhood it’s gifted me. 


My maternal line extends
behind me, a revisionary rope of umbilical cords 
transcribes a sequence of shoulders to lean on–
and I lean. 


Praise for the mother whose knuckles have scabbed over,
praise for the mother who swallowed pain like it was pasta, who made sure
there were no left-overs. Praise for the mother whose words are always a lullaby,
praise for the mother who brings hope home in grocery bags. 
Praise for the mother who’s mothered children she’s never met
by way of mitochondria. 


The adenosine triphosphate of the familial unit, 
fueling us to keep functioning.
It has traversed my lineage by
waves of blood and spit and remains
lifegiving. So


praise for my mitochondria that has laid the bricks of my lineage,
for the women passing on family secrets locked in a cage of chromosomes,

and to my mother’s
mother’s, and her mother’s
mother’s, and her mother’s
mother’s, and her’s


























15. Erie is an Ocean
[PC] LF [PB]


The light of evening bounces off Lake Erie. 
From the edge of the city, you might mistake it for the ocean, 
imagine it’s grander than it is. Some ways behind me,
a mother makes a scavenger hunt of her pantry, 
scrambles to pull dinner out of empty boxes. 
On the West Side, 10-year-olds attempt soccer, kick grass 
off the field and peel clementines 
on side lines. Across the Industrial Valley, 
a rusted shopping cart is wedged tightly
on a street corner. What normally looks out of place
has woven itself into the canvas of this city, 
the clumsy construction, how Shaker melts 
into the East entrance of downtown– 
its scarce pinpoints of pride. 


Voinovich Park sits pretty tonight, 
lets me pretend that what faces my back
is a suspiciously sparkling beach town. 
















































16. lobos marinos
[JG] [PC] GL
the sea wolf
snarls, mandible
ajar and cavernous,
all broad boned
white knives
jutting out
jettisoned amidst
dried and salted
blood clinging
against a clammy,
carnivorous maw.






















































17. The Dock at Padanaram Harbor - after W.B. Yeats’s “The Lake Isle of Innisfree”
[BR] [PC] LF


A tempest blows hard from the north,
Conjuring a vicious surf capped with ghoulish spittle. 
Prospero bears no blame for Poseidon’s force, 
His hands lashing piers with intent to whittle. 


Yet the dock holds firm beneath my feet,
It neither creaks, nor rattles, nor breaks–
Though the waves do–those monoliths of silver sheet, 
That with steady hammer Poseidon makes. 


So when God or man dare test me, 
Or seek to bludgeon virgin stone, 
Know the dock held firm beneath my feet, 
For I, and I alone. 














































18. bodies in the street
[PC]  LF PB


in the poor periphery we watch the bodies
pile up, a scattering of guayaquileñan blood
on blistering pavement boiling under the sun


the stench of death hangs in the heat of tropical
temperatures with no hope of relief as cardboard
coffins line streets where life once flourished


you are a doctor, they cry as their city sobs
under the weight of the world collapsing in,
please you have to help us, we’re dying


music leaves the streets as the beleaguered city
weeps for what it has lost, for bodies left missing,
unrecognizable; rife in the cataclysm of the port


corpses that were lovers and mothers and brothers
find themselves left in wheelchairs, stacked on beds,
like sacks of papas in the waiting room of the morgue


angel maria canales asks us to be patient, to wait, to bury
dead that might not even be our own, and now we’re
left to this fate, our grief a harbinger of unthinkable death




























19. The Giant of Fries 
[PC][PB]GL
The crack of dawn hatched against the earth, spreading its light to all. It made the tips of utility poles shine, oil infused puddles sparkle, and anointed the golden arches of the great god, Mack. Perched on top of an electrical cable, Great Crow Rak’lah gazed down at the black wastes. Wrappers were dragged by the wind like tumbleweed while the ground was slashed by a myriad of bright colors.
Rak’lah remembered the day when he had mistaken the white strips of the wastes as snow patches. He was a chick then, bold, believing that he was invincible, but that was until he encountered a big-loud-one. Its putrid fumes had almost smothered his airways and it roared with the intensity of death. He ruffled his feathers to rid himself of the memory.
That was all behind him now. He had long grown accustomed to the growlings of the big-loud-ones as well as the giants that detached themselves from their chassis. All the crows by his side could boast such a feat. That was why they were here.
The sunlight above flickered as his lieutenant Sher’pa dove down to his position. “Great Rak’lah,” his lieutenant said. “Our scouts have returned with news on the enemy’s movements.”
“Speak.” The great crow intoned.
“Two giants have awakened from their street-side slumber to the scent of the god arches’ breakfast meals. They have donned on their pelts and are stalking the outskirts of the holy land. One of them still harbors the cheek injury you inflicted from days prior.”
“Good, and what of our holy Giant of Fries?”
“Scout Loj reports that the giant has woken from his slumber thirty minutes ago, we expect that he and his big-loud-one will arrive shortly.”
“Get the first and second murder squad into position and wait for my signal.”
“It will be done,” said Sher’pa, dismounting from the cable.
Rak’lah returned his gaze to the wastes. War was brewing like the dollar coffee of the arches and soon, the crow clan of Parq Sen’tral would protect their patron saint. For seven winters, the Giant of Fries had blessed his clan with food. No longer did they need to steal or fight amongst themselves, no longer did the young have to shiver through frigid nights. His clan had flourished under the gentle sausage fingers of their giant, and that debt would not be forgotten.
The muggers would pay for assaulting their saint. Feeling the currents of air course through his body, Rak’lah dismounted from his outpost and rode the wind. With the powers and responsibilities vested in him as the great crow, he would personally ensure that the muggers would never be able to do such things again.
This is for you Giant of the Fries. This is for you.














































20. please leave a message after the beep
[JG] [PC] LF


sunday sunbeam,


as tedious as it is to hand write
you letters, watching the world
burn is probably a good enough
incentive for me, but I know you
probably wouldn’t get this letter
until after what’s happening outside,
with the fires in the streets and blood
spilling from head wounds, gets worse.
voicemails at least, bypass the postal
service and I am just tired, so tired
that I’ve taken to swan watching
in your absence, since you’re across
mountain ranges and unmarked grave
sites, and god I miss you but –


I started swan watching in April, when I was
first freed from the nest, a little wobbly on
my new legs, like home wasn’t the same
as I remembered it. but there’s a lake
over by where I fill prescription after
prescription to try and reduce anxiety
that’s getting worse with the unstable
state of our nation and I – I’m – well –
I’m not quite sure what I am.


but the swans – I think I know them.
I think I could know them. there are
two of them, a perfect set, a matched
pair, a dynamic duo, a couplet – lovers.
do you remember the frog song echoing
across the marsh behind my house after
a blustering squall? when torrents come
down, drowning May flower skies in cold,
silvery gunmetal,


  sometimes I forget there’s
a world outside of the chamber of my skull
because things have just been too much
and too loud and lately I can’t concentrate
on anything except the sounds of the frogs
when I meander across splintering tree trunks
and sodden marsh floor to check on the nest,
to see if the eggs are still there, dewy, but alive.


even on my way home, head wrapped up
in fuck, they’re fine, my mind keeps
wandering to the little things. like how
Talia’s fourteen and still a hair’s breadth
under my nose, or how Maya’s braiding
my curls back, hands a little less shaky
than they were last year when she told
me it was too dark outside to get her out
of bed, and how bran looks a decade too
small with the mask on, eyes open so wide
and I can’t help but seeing someone I barely
knew squinting at me when I didn’t respond
to the call of my name for the pizza order –


I think it’s all rattling around in my head,
but the swans – the swans – they just swim.
their nest was this wide thing of water-logged
branches scavenged from the edges of boat
docks and trees reaching up and over the lake
as diesel fuel and fumes from the street drifted
in, but it’s a good nest, solid and strong enough
that it’s withstood the winds – unlike the tree
in the backroads that sits sliced in half, collapsed
on the car of those ignorant people and I felt
so bad because I thought it was just karma,
but my mother raised me better, and I’m sure
the swan in the lake and her partner are raising
the three little birds in her herd far better than I
ever would. and you’d think that with the two
of them, it’s like I’ve never been in love before.


when I see them, I think oh that’s love, like
when she prunes his feathers or he wanders off
to the other side of the lake to look for more fish
and the way that they curled around their tiny cygnet
clan. when the storm hit so hard that the rain was too
much for me to drive and I had to sit in the safety
of metal and glass as I got another notification that
the world was ending again and god can those please
stop, I really can’t take another broken heart, not
right now, not when it feels like I never got over
the first one, but I have to get up tomorrow at six
for my shift, waking with the sun, my heart bleeding –


on storming days, I really just want to fall into my
bed and let the dreams of distant snarling jungle
cats, the laughter of music and the hot, aching
sun beating down on my back lead me to a home
that isn’t here, that isn’t this and I just want to tell
you that I love you if nothing else and I miss you
and I wish you were here, frosty palms pressed
against my face and a gentle grin, ice cold boba
in one hand and a burrito in another and – oh I –


I’ll write about the swans. I think you’d like them.
































21. the night we met
[JG] GL [PC]


every single time i look at you
i think about writing poetry
on your lips the way you sung
refrains, leaving me behind
as punishment for sin stirring


beneath the expanse of my skin.
and yet, my eyes recall the perfect
halo of spun gold locks, flashing,
gilded in the illuminated lightning
that struck the night we met.


you taught me why hurricanes
are named after people, why
sunsets are better seen hand
in hand, upside-down. i didn’t
like my name until you whispered


it into my ear as we clung, crying
in the downpour as the universe
bearing down on our shoulders
finally collapsed. i told you i never
liked fireworks when i’m alone,


but now i hear them with every
beat of your feet walking away
from me. i can still feel your
hands tracing the length of my
curls, lavender perfume clinging


to your wrist. does it still make
sense to miss you? you never
seem to let me go, like the ghost
of us haunts your halls at night
with dead eyes, queer amongst


who we thought we’d be. i still
blow dandelions, lie in the street
at 2 am during hurricanes, so when
i said i wanted to marry you, you
have to know i meant it. would


we’ve been able to fly cape cod
hydrangeas in vibrant pinks, dull
purples, and hues of blues? if only
we could’ve told each other what
we implied when we said i love you.


i know they said little
girls didn’t grow up
to marry other little
girls, but maybe
we could have.
















































22. spanish lessons[BR][PB] GL


rather than saying supporters 
it’s people who support the cause 


circumlocution 


the best friend of the foreigner 
ever learning a new language 






























































23. GALATEA 
[BR] GL [PC]


I


I tried to swim
in the falling snow,
as if to overcome
the gap between
what is and what isn’t.


II


There is nowhere left to run —
you knocked on the bedroom door
and told me to go back to sleep.


III


In Greece, you had a purple towel
tied nonchalantly around your waist
and salt flowing down your chin  
reflecting the old masters lighting.


IV


I’m sorry that I ignored the ropes,
but they’re inappropriately formal;
they prevent possession.


The museum will be closing in fifteen minutes


V


I knew that I shouldn’t have
embraced the sun
but, I did it for love,
in the name of love.


VI


Your words
dance provocatively
through the radio static —
my foot a metronome
transmitting,
searching for meters where
there are none.


VII


I chased your marble for its form;
it is old and academic,
but beauty without desire
can be bought and sold at auction.


The museum will be closing in fifteen minutes


VIII


The dead season,
the muddy season,
always arriving.
















































24. A Game of Cat and Mouse
LF [PC] [DU]
“You’re reading Freud?” Steven leaned back in his chair to peer over Phillip’s shoulder. “Why the hell would you listen to anything that weirdo has to say?”
“I didn’t pick it,” Phillip said, drawing in on himself and further into the book. “It’s for
philosophy.”
“Then protest.” Steven waved his arms about dramatically. “Walk into class and set the
book on fire. Demand to read less misogynistic crap.”
Phillip sighed, setting the book down for just a moment, which frankly, was the greatest
mistake of his life because in that moment, his eyes met Steven’s directly, and the intensity
behind that burning gaze would hold onto him and never let him go. “I’m not you. I can’t do that.”
“So you’ve heard of me?” Steven kicked his legs up onto the table, the soles of his feet
digging into Phillip’s required reading.
“Everyone has.”
“I’m flattered. Nice to know people are thinking of me.” He hummed, pulling a cigarette
out of his pocket that must have been damp because it took a few attempts to even light it.
“It’s not good things.”
“It never is, but thanks for the honesty. I appreciate it, doll.”
Phillip blushed as he nudged Steven’s feet off of his book, brushing the dirt off carefully
so that he could continue reading.
“Oh come on. What do these old racist guys even have to say that’s so interesting, hm?”
“Who do you recommend then?” Phillip meant it sarcastically, but by the grin that
captivated Steven’s face as he leaned over the desk, he knew that it had been a mistake.
“I thought you’d never ask.”
The conversation, if one could call it that, lasted for five hours. It only ended because the
library was closing, and while Steven dared the librarian to just lock the two of them in there, Phillip quickly scooped up his books and darted for the exit, muttering apologies to the librarian who could no longer even hear him.
“And,” Steven followed alongside him, “if it’s psychology you’re interested in, it’s not
Freud you should be reading. You know, the man’s a lunatic. Behaviorism or humanism are a
little more practical. I mean, humanism is kind of fluffy and overly optimistic, but it’s grounded in observation at least. Now Freud––he’s just a skuzz, really. I mean, where do you think he even
got his ideas from?”
“His patients?” Phillip weakly offered as he walked through the library doors, trying
desperately to lose the man at his heels.
“His patients were mostly upper class women. You think he got the idea of little boys
wanting to shag their mothers from those ladies?”
“Well, where did he get it from then?” Phillip sighed, stopping in his tracks to face
Steven.
“Where do you think? He made it up; he was a pervert who had the hots for his mother,
so he decided that everyone else must too. You know, there’s no evidence for anything that he
suggests, really. Now Skinner on the other hand, tested everything, so if you’re interested in
psychology-”
“I’m not,” Phillip desperately cut him off. “I’m only reading it for class, and we’re reading it in philosophy, so I really don’t need-”
“You’re telling me you’re not at all interested in the way the brain works?”
“I mean…”
“Okay, okay. Maybe if I explain some more you’ll get it.”
And so it went on. Unfortunately for Phillip, Steven followed him all the way back to his
room and made him stand there for several more hours while he rambled on about Skinnerian
boxes and pigeons and the strangest tangents. Passerbys constantly brushed past them, asking
politely for them to be quieter, and for which they only received the most vulgar profanities and a miraculous raising in volume until by the end of the night, Steven was practically screaming to
the whole campus.
Phillip had never wanted more to just disappear.
It was with one hell of a grudge, but Phillip had to admit it, to finally fold his cards and
leave the table; he had done the very thing he had sworn not to do when he went off for
University. He had fallen for one of the morons of the campus––those sort of rare delights that
are the charms of the scene, bringing vibrancy and draining IQ to everyone within a five mile
radius, but that was not to say that he was unintelligent; he was actually much to the contrary,
but his energy and relentlessness were enough to make anyone with the misfortune of making
contact with him feel their mental energy drained out with every second of conversation.
Steven Roberts was inexplicably outrageous; he never kept his mouth shut almost as if
he were afraid it would never be able to open again if it rested for even a moment. He fought
with anyone who dared to make eye contact with him, and he was, unfortunately, usually
intoxicated. He was the sort of man who would either make or completely ruin your day
depending on his mood; the whole campus swung with him every time his mood swung from
one end of the spectrum to another.
Most often, people spoke of him in a condescending manner, noting him as the
outrageous brat whose only interest in life was to personally ensure that every single student
required a shrink by the time they graduated.
Phillip Callings, however, was nothing of the sort; he was timid, small, and reserved,
wishing desperately that he could just fall into the wallpaper and take notes from there, never
having to speak to another person. Of course, with his luck, he would fall for the worst possible
person. He had a habit of getting himself into trouble like that, not to mention that the school
was no sanctuary to the grueling force that was homophobia of the 1960’s sort––a special sort
of delicacy in Britain complete with conversion therapy and lynchings to your liking. He had gotten himself into more trouble than he ever could have imagined; if only he had never had the
misfortune of sitting down next to Steven at the library in that legendary fall of 1962.
After only a few coerced weeks of knowing him, Phillip Callings had come to know
several things about Steven Roberts. His apparel was one of the only constant things about
him, and it nearly always consisted of khakis cuffed at the bottom to rise approximately one and
three quarter inches above his ankle, an exhausted button down shirt with a minimum of two
stains (one was permitted so long as it exceeded two inches in diameter), unremarkable brown
dress shoes, one ankle sock and one full length sock scrunched up to imitate said ankle sock, a
silver watch that had not worked for at least ten years, and a stupidly lopsided smile that was
powered solely on whiskey and rum.
He was, unfortunately, an attractive man. Despite his poor but deliberate fashion
choices, his beauty still managed to shine through all of it. If only he had worn jeans rather than
khakis, perhaps they could have avoided this whole ‘forbidden love’ drama. Steven had dark-
but-not-quite-black hair incessantly untamed by product or the laws of physics, bright blue eyes,
deeply tanned skin of the sort that made him a beacon for racists to find amongst the lukewarm
pale sea of the British population, a sharply tuned nose, stupidly toned arms (most likely from
picking fights with anyone who breathed in his direction) an uneven gait courtesy of his
aforementioned best friends whiskey and rum, and a ferocity behind everything he did or said
clear from the mischief in his eyes.
His family consisted of one of London’s finest men who could have anything he desired
except for, apparently, his son’s recognition, a housecleaner from Guatemala who had died
when Steven was 16 and was the only person that Steven never spoke ill of, seven unnaturally
tiny dogs, one spoiled semi-cat that had become engulfed in fat and fur beyond recognition, 17
horses, a turtle, and 36 staff members employed at the main household. He said that the only
one that counted as family was the turtle. 
Phillip learned fairly quickly that Steven denied his British heritage and only claimed himself as Guatemalan; he would be offended if you even insinuated that he might be less than fully Guatemalan.
Right now, he was sitting on Phillip’s chair with his feet up on his desk, knocking over the meticulously placed items that had neatly lined his desk. With one fell swoop of his feet, Steven had managed to knock over the pencil jar that contained exactly one dozen fully sharpened pencils and ten pens split evenly between black and red––blue was too close to black and quite pretentious, Phillip would say when asked—one carefully placed photograph of Phillip and his parents, one alarm clock, and a small bottle of hand lotion. 
The window was still open from where Steven had mysteriously forced his way in despite the fact that Phillip lived on the third floor of the apartment complex.
“Please be quieter,” Phillip whispered after Steven had boldly declared his presence
upon sitting himself down upon the chair, completely uninvited.
“Why? Your roommate is fast asleep. I’m pretty sure this place could be swept up in a
hurricane and he’d just keep on snoring.”
It was true. Phillip’s roommate––a man named Leonard Burns––was sprawled out onto
the bed on the other side of the room with his face buried into his pillow, which did little to muffle his armageddon snores that made the whole bed tremble with anticipation.
“It’s still rude.”
“Do I look like I care if I’m rude?” Steven motioned to his feet upon the desk as he
leaned back in the chair.
“I thought you just… didn’t understand social boundaries.”
“Cute, but no. I understand them and hate them. Stupid self-imposed rules. Since when
did we decide that there were forbidden behaviors?”
“You sound like Freud.”
“Oh. You’re talking back now? Interesting. I wasn’t sure that you were able.”
“Would you just… Please be quieter if you’re going to stay?”
“I really don’t see why. I mean,” something devilish comes over Steven’s features that
makes Phillip almost want to throw him right back out of that window before he can even say
whatever wicked thing is on his mind. “I could probably shag you right here, and he would just
keep on dozing.”
It is easy for one to say that one is familiar with Embarrassment––that yes, she is an old
friend, a constant companion almost, but there was not a single person who had ever felt the
sudden rush of her full, suffocating embrace as much as Phillip had at that moment. Indeed,
with only those few words, he had come to know her in a way that he had never thought
possible: a way that twisted the lines on her face to make her almost resemble her cousin, that
riddle outcast of Shame, or worse, Guilt.
“You need to leave.” Phillip had never heard such certainty in his voice before, and it
almost frightened him. He stormed across the limited space of the apartment bedroom to nudge
Steven towards the window.
Steven, however, was remarkably stable for someone who had already had two flasks of
whiskey throughout the duration of the day, and he remained seated in the chair, looking
curiously up at the flustered man trying desperately to kick him out of his apartment.
“I don’t need to do anything. Now you’re being rude.”
“I don’t care,” Phillip bit out.
“I thought you loved rules… that you kissed up to your social overlords whenever you got the chance?”
A silence hung between them in which Steven merely watched him for an answer, his
eyes tracking over the expressions that flickered off of Phillip’s face like scenes on a theater
screen.
Phillip Callings is not a homosexual.


“I am not a homosexual.” Phillip closed his eyes, allowing the words to wash over him in
hopes that it would dispel the lurking sickness within him that he had buried so carefully so long
ago.
Steven whistled as he settled himself comfortably into the chair again. “Your sweater
vests beg to differ.”
“My…” Phillip’s face fell in his hands before the thought occurred to him. “Are you…?”
“Queer?” Steven leaned towards him, and when he received a slow nod from Phillip, he
chuckled but continued. “I literally just offered to shag you ten seconds ago. That should be
enough of a clue.”
“You need to leave.” Phillip started pushing him towards the window again, and by the
grace of God, Steven indulged him and stood up to go towards the window of his own accord.
“All right. I didn’t mean to upset you, doll.” Steven sounded softer, farther away.
“Just…” Phillip whispered in defeat. “Go, please.”
“Yeah.” Steven hopped onto the window sill, leaning over to brush a finger against
Phillip’s cheek. He let it hover there for a moment, the space between them so thin that it
seemed already broken.
But it wasn’t. Steven left back through the window, leaving Phillip standing in a daze
while the object of his budding affection darted off much like a thief of the night; except, he had
not taken much of anything other than perhaps Phillip’s sense of security, but he had left so
much more: standing there with his hand tracing where Steven’s finger had been, he imagined
that he could feel Love’s delicate handwriting written there. He could almost fall into it.
From then on, life for Phillip Callings revolved around Steven; he was his sun, his moon,
his stars––anything and everything worth looking at. Studying, of course, was still important, but
Steven somehow always managed to pull him away from his books when he had worked for too
long. They spent a lot of time in odd synchronous rhythms. When Phillip studied in the library,
Steven would sit next to him and ramble about a book or shout at the librarians. Steven would
go to Phillip’s classes and start arguments with the teachers; there were a few cases in which
he jumped onto the professor’s desk, and one in which he fell off and hit his head due to a few
too many encounters with his constant companion flask. They spent late nights in coffee shops
where Phillip would scribble down his essays and Steven would pour whiskey into his coffee
and read over Phillip’s shoulder sometimes critically, sometimes in awe of the words that
seemed to be an extension of his lover’s mind, body, and soul. They would wander around
campus, but only in the darkest corners where they were sure no one could see would they dare
to break the space that the campus enforced between them; only in those fleeting moments
were they really free.
“Come on.” Steven led Phillip by the hand down the ravine. “It’s finally not freezing out.”
Phillip followed silently. He loved being led. Anywhere that was good enough to get
Steven rushing towards it made Phillip more than willing to fall head first into it, and that
included when Steven finally stopped at the small pond about a mile off of campus and
immediately began to strip down.
“What?” He looked up when he noticed Phillip simply staring. “You nervous the birds are
going to judge you?”
“No, I… It’s just so close to campus. What if someone sees?”
“Then they see.” Steven shrugged. “We’re just swimming. Are they going to lynch me for
that?”
“It… I don’t know.”
“You never do.”
Steven shook his head with an affectionate smirk as he leaned in, scooping a gentle
hand behind the curvature of Phillip’s neck to pull him in.
“Last one in is paying for dinner!” Steven called as he immediately turned around upon
breaking the kiss, rushing albeit unevenly towards the pond.
“W-wait! I didn’t agree to that! Steven!”
Water. The water was freeing, liberating, like a mask that prevented the world from
seeing in. It was almost like a glass fogged up by the breath of a desperate child so that no one
could see through, and then it was just them and an infinite space, impenetrable by prejudice or
time.  
And when it was over because of the curtain of night that set a blanket and lulled their
outing to sleep, they lay on the side of the pond, staring up at the blossoming freckles of stars in
the canvas of the sky. Slowly, their hands linked together, fingers intertwining like galaxies,
separate in their own right but hopelessly intermingled in the span of eternity, lost in the web of
time, and for a moment, it engulfed them. Time was nothing, and they were just bodies in space.
“I want to do something fun tonight,” Steven announced.
“We just did.”
“Come on.” Steven had already pushed himself up, pulling his shirt back on with a speed
usually foreign to people who had had that much to drink.
“Where are we going?” Phillip asked the question, but even as he dressed himself and
followed Steven along back through the woods and all the way back to campus, he did not care
for the answer. He had learned long ago that the answer was not what mattered. Everything
was in the invitation.
They wound up in the biggest lecture hall on campus. Steven picked the locks to the
doors pretty easily, and Phillip merely watched, passively. There was a time when he would
have freaked out, but Steven’s calmness radiated in waves, and it was overpowering.
Phillip followed almost detached as Steven wrote profanities on the board and scattered
papers across the desks. He could only feel pure awe in that moment. Steven was
everything––a chaotic swirl of energetic love that engulfed everything in its path, and he was
more than happy to be its final object.
“Come here,” Steven’s voice came breathily as he pulled Phillip into him by the collar,
the kiss lingering there in the suspension of time that they had created together.
“What if someone is in the building?” Phillip breathed between kisses despite making no
effort to stop anything that was happening.
“It doesn’t matter.”
And it didn’t.
“I love you,” Steven breathed.
The world was so much clearer than it ever had been. There was so much focus there in
that one moment that Phillip almost forgot everything that had ever come before.
None of it mattered.
“I love you too.”
“I’d like to marry you someday.”
Phillip Callings is not a homosexual.
“You can’t.” Phillip chuckled, brushing his fingers along the sides of Steven’s face.
“That’s what’s wrong with you, Phil. You look at things all wrong. So the system hates
us, so then we hate it too, but we’ve got to change it. You get kicked and you stay down. That’s
your whole problem. You’ve got to learn to get back up and change what you don’t like.”
Phillip said nothing, merely listening with eager fascination of Steven’s certainty.
“Now, let’s make out on this skuzz’s desk.”


Phillip found himself waiting outside of the building because Steven had decided to take
the ‘scenic’ way out––that is, to say, he decided that he was going to scale his way down the
building. Phillip had fussed over him in worrying that he would get hurt, but Steven assured him
he would be fine. After all, he was more than used to scaling Phillip’s apartment due to the fact
that Leonard Burns could literally sleep through the apocalypse.
Steven emerged in the window, standing triumphantly with his hands on his hips and
promptly swung his body down the side. He was down the building in only a matter of seconds
without any trouble, landing swiftly on his feet.
“That was amazing!” Phillip rushed over to greet him. He pulled Steven into him for a
celebratory kiss, willing to celebrate anything and everything that Steven was.
“Of course.” Steven muttered around the kiss, slightly amused at Phillip’s awe.
“Hey!”
The two of them broke off at the sound of an approaching voice, spinning around to see
a group of young men about their age heading towards them––about half a dozen or so.
“Hey, faggots!”
Blood. Phillip could hear his own blood pulsing through his veins, aware of how much he
had and how much could spill at any second.
“What did you just say?” Steven bristled, pushing himself in front of Phillip so that he
could face the group of men.
“I said,” the lead boy snickered and his friends laughed along with him. “You’re a couple
of f-”
Phillip had never seen a punch so fast in his life, and Steven was quick to dodge the
following throws that ensued. It was at this moment that he remembered that Steven was
notorious for starting fights.
Phillip could only watch, frozen in place, which years down the road he would be told
was perfectly normal, but in that moment, he felt completely and utterly helpless.
Two of the men had grabbed him and they were kicking him, but his eyes were trained
on Steven, who fought with more energy than Phillip could even have ever hoped to obtain. He
wanted to fight for Steven, and he wished that he had. Maybe things would have been different.
Maybe they would not have ended that way.
Phillip Callings is not a homosexual. Phillip Callings is not a homosexual. Phillip Callings is not a homosexual…
His classmate’s handwriting is rubbing off from the sweat on his fist. His teacher was so
pleased with herself for making the bully have such a sore hand by the time he had finished
writing the phrase five dozen times, and she had given Phillip the paper as proof that his
classmate’s comment was gone. Proof that the words and everything the meant was gone, and
he clung to that paper, hoping he could breathe the words in and let them take over his lungs.
Phillip watched in crushing horror as his own vision clouded with blood as the men
ripped off Phillip’s shoelaces, Steven flailing and screaming at them the whole way despite the
bruises and broken bones already poking through his less than well fitting shirt. They dragged
him to the nearest tree, one where Steven often perched to throw papers at passersby, and
they strung him up as if he were just another decoration to them, nothing at all.
In the years to come, Phillip would not remember anything other than the kiss, his
scream, and Steven’s body finally drained of its life, hanging from the tree, the breath finally
knocked out of him. He would remember the way that his mouth hung open without any words
coming out, and that to him was the most unnatural, the thing that tore his world from under him,
and all he could do was scream.
Steven Roberts died in the spring of 1964. Phillip Callings died with him, never to stray
from behind the lines, never to be anything more. His parents forced conversion therapy on him
afterwards. Everyday was a new pill, a new method, but none of it mattered. 
Phillip married in summer 1970. His parents picked the girl, and she was nice and quiet. She did not ask any questions. None of it mattered.
She left him in winter 1976. He did not say anything when she made the announcement
or when she moved all of her things. None of it mattered.
Gay marriage was legalized in 2013 when Phillip was 70 years old. For the first time
since the spring of 1964, he cried. He left the house that day, venturing to the outskirts of
London, and he settled upon the grave of his one and only. He closed his eyes and allowed the
comfort of the coldness of the grave to lull him into sleep, brushing his fingers along the lines of
his name, and knowing now, that in the safety of the moment, he could finally be free, and he
finally knew that Love drew her name in the lines of Steven Roberts’s grave.


In summer 2013, Phillip Callings died finally knowing freedom after fifty years of never
leaving the lines. In summer 2013, Phillip Callings found peace.


























































25. Perching on a Grave  
GL   LF SL


Once flitting and frolicking, 


The bird now perches on the stone,


Cooing and babbling,


It won’t leave us alone.


Surely you know me―


The bird did proclaim,


They call me Seamus Heaney,


A name of wide acclaim. 


This grave, this stone,


Is where I once stood,


But now I’ve risen, 


And I soar through the Hazelwood.


The Earth pulls me forward and 


Eases my plight,


After so many decades, 


My soul still feels light.  


The years have long passed,


They’ve trickled out of sight,


But I must oblige 


And continue to write. 


My poems are everlasting, 


Beautiful, and bold,


The words on the page―


They’ll never grow old. 


A call to reality,


A message I must spread,


Fire for the living,


And sanctity for the dead. 


I simply belong here, in the 


Isle of Emerald Green,


With its peat bogs and bosky banks,


The most beautiful you’ve ever seen.


I’ve trekked through the Wicklow Mountains,


I’ve ambled along the Antrim Coast,


I’ve meandered through the streets of Dublin,


And this is what I truly miss the most. 


But I am here now,


Here with you,


Striving to express


That which is true.


Keep writing and thinking,


Put the thoughts on a page,


Don’t fear their reaction,


As value increases with age. 


And as for me,


I will do the same,


Walk on air 


And watch the words turn to flame. 


  





























26. SIREN [BR] GL LF


Had I kissed you on the beach,
the moment could’ve died 
receiving its proper burial. 


My ears stuffed with beeswax 
left a latent image you slipped 
into me like Atlantic foam, 
appearing, then disappearing, 
later recalled in the sound 
of a bathroom conch shell. 


I thought that to survive meant 
to hold out against desire,
as if the imagination could 
be more satisfied than touch.  


To believe this becomes harder,
the passing of time signifying 
distances impossible to traverse;
the mind thinking it can deceive 
desperate for solutions, remedies 
to quell a jellyfish. 












































27. how many season?
LF GL [PB]


fucking vivaldi 
violins banging shit out
got me vibin so hard 
i could go stupid 


did people of his time 
appreciate the bangers?
probably...
this ain’t some new wave shit
i’m just late to the game






























































28. tequila, on the rocks [JG] LF GL


one drink to feel the buzz
yet no art comes to mind
only an empty page 
under the wet footprint of a cocktail
soggy and blank
goldfish-
raisins-
dust in cheesed grape 


































































29. grandmother’s colors  SL  GL  LF
your voice is a remembered sound;
warm wool wrapping
around my bare neck in winter,
telling me
dreams are Orange and Yellow.


you used to love
the snow the sun 
dyed Yellow and Orange
with sunrise, used to love
jam on toast during mornings
too cold the birds forgot to sing.  


you told me the stars are music boxes 
that spill 
the sounds of crickets, and heaven 
listens to their Blue melody. 


Blue was your heart
after its arteries became clogged
and the doctors took it out
and replaced it with one 
that didn’t work anyways.


i walk to the window and imagine 
i see you dancing and alive,
out in the Orange field and imagine
winter now preserves you 
up in the stars, body Blue and cold,
with hands delicate and steady, 
as you set a plate of breakfast toast 
at a table for one. 












30. She Told Me She Wished to be Remembered as a Relic   
GL LF [PC]


My dead great-grandmother sits in the drawing room
as a hand-mirror. Three generations worn,
the edges dip in where familial hands have held 
their own reflections. Spotted with marks
time impressed upon the glass, it is hard
to make out a true reflection anymore. I move
the mirror close, far, left, right, to attempt 
a more perfect image of myself. Nothing appears.
The object sits heavy in my palm: on the other side,
swirling patterns of jade. She loved the color 
jade: God mixed blue and green to find it –
or so I am told. This mirror could be a lie
as much as it could be my great-grandmother:
either way you look at it, you’ll find a metaphor
and see the outlines of a face that looks like yours
but really belongs to a stranger. 








































31. F1[1] & H1B[2] [BR] GL LF


Give me your well-behaved, your comfortable, your meek;
your diligent students, programmers in seek 
of tutelage and work.
Give me your landed gentry, your excellent sheep.


Your full tuition appreciated. Your services: 
invisible but well-compensated. 
Be nice, stay on the margins, be quiet.
Me, have patience wiss dat accent? Impossible.


Here’s a pretty badge 
for as long as you stay unoffended, inaudible. 
Here are fifty reasons why
your women are vixens, men undesirable. 


Oppressed? Nonsense, with all that dough?
Your skin is light and ancestors unchained.
Never mind you can’t vote, your taxes will prove
you’re part of the family, don’t complain!


We’ll import the technical people,
then call your people awkward, antisocial. 
We’ll hand-pick the loaded kids,
then say you’re all crazy rich and material.


Federalist Papers and Shakespeare[3], let them study that.
This ship is sailing. Nail shut the cabin doors!
We’ll convert these spies, or better, expel and ban; no more 
job-stealing immigrants, green-card-digging whores.










32. There is Thin Water[a]
 
On that night, water descended slow 
and tentative from the heavens
in a generous mist.
 
It draped lampposts
with its swirling gauze,
hid the moon 
 
from above the wetland,
dampened the harrowed din
of cricket song
rising from the cattails.
 
Somewhere, there is a great abacus of 
clear glass beads in neat rows. 
        In a gentle tapping rhyme,
a winged angel counts
 
each drop of dewy joy as it leaps
from its folded leaf-tip
and lands
in the wet embrace of the earth.
 
Somewhere, in the great book,
the frog whistles his yearning into a dark night—
 
but elsewhere, maybe on the first page,
there is the thin water
      which glistens on his slippery back
                from far above.
















33. The Old Men of Reykjavík
LF GL [PC]


They play in the church 
crowning the city: where the Vikings arrived 
in wooden boats. The old men of Reykjavík
untuck their violins, 
cellos, basses, from their resting cases;
they tune them 
under the darkness of the Northern winter. I cannot play,
yet I watch them (I have watched them
for years); my grandfather
sits left, second from the end, 
butterfly hands fluttering around 
the violin that might as well be a live thing – 
separate, autonomous from him – 
the way it dances, as if trying to escape
his arthritic grasp. Can 
the Vikings below-ground
sense the sound 
after two thousand years?


















































34. Drawing Circles
[SG]
 
Tuesday mornings are full of innocent freedom
A new day to get to the bottom
of this: God why am I so empty?
They say to use your words but my mouth
nose, eyes, are pressed up to the glass
And I might not muster up the courage to speak this week.
 
Even if it will only happen twice this week,
on Wednesday I pull myself from bed and empty
my pill bottle. I reach for the glass
of water forever on my dresser, place it to my mouth
forever awaiting the taste of freedom.
I look into the bottle and see a trip to the pharmacy at the bottom.
 
Thursday day I’m thinking this week
is okay, because my body has found freedom
from days-old cocaine and cigarettes and the empty
promises that they make. Maybe tonight my mouth
will kiss and sing, rather than suckle a glass
of which I never want to see the bottom.
 
Thursday night I fail again and from the bottom
of the well I look up at the empty
sky, wondering why birds deserve freedom
from their own minds while mine cuts like glass,
spending each and every week
hating the words that come out of my mouth.
 
I think back to Monday morning and purging myself empty
A last-ditch effort at freedom
From glass after glass after glass
Letting the liquor escape from my mouth
Letting myself try for one more week.
Maybe this time I won’t come out on the bottom.
 
Friday comes to begin my week and my mouth waters for a lick
of freedom at the bottom of a glass half-empty. I smash it into my chest
and allow each shard to nestle an inch deeper into my heart.












35. Sunset Hunters
GL [BR] LF


It’s a school night and you’re burning
as we drive too fast down an empty
two-lane road with deep crimson
and liquid yellow sliding through the windshield
to prick at your eyes and bloody your skin.
Sunset hunting you call it, 
every extra minute in the light
a moment stolen from God.
You point at the sinking sun like it’s an Easter egg
peeking out of the tall grass waiting 
to be plucked by a child’s searching fingers,
and you tell me to chase it.
It’s a losing game, and we’re running on empty
but you’re humming that little tune
you heard somewhere that you’ve long since 
forgotten the name of, a-hunting we will go!—
and it’s like a battle cry or maybe
a funeral dirge, and I wonder how you can be 
so wise when your tangled brown hair
doesn’t even reach the headrest of my car yet.








































36. Inclement Weather 
GL [BR] LF


You may have seen me 
running back to the dorms
in the sudden downpour 
with nothing but a flimsy pink umbrella
with half of its metal spokes
snapped and dangling uselessly 
around my head as I tried to salvage 
what little of my clothes remained dry. 
You may even have seen
how I stole that umbrella from where it
slumped in a dusty cubby in the corner
of the cafeteria then proceeded to trudge
resolutely up the asphalt slope,
now a gushing river, up the stairs,
now a foaming waterfall,
with wet feet, wet socks, wet soles—
and I couldn’t stop laughing at the absurdity of it all.
Whenever someone walked past
hunched over, hands shoved into pockets
rain dripping from their hoods,
I hid my delirious smile
because what would people think
if we went around smiling all the time?


A thousand miles away, I know you’re sitting
at home, comfortably dry 
laughing at me swimming out here
with my textbooks growing soggy
on my back, and it’s hysterical, it’s absurd—
it’s nearly freezing but all I can hear
is your laughter above the drumming downpour
telling me that there is only this moment,
here and now, with socks that squelch
with every step, a broken pink umbrella 
my only godsend, and the rain laughing
and laughing, and oh what a time
to be alive.
________________
37. Building a Radio For Dad 
[SG]


I am building a radio with Dad
Out of a tuna fish can.


Soldering iron pats clips of tubing
Spools snipped short and melted air-tight.


Transformers, Resistors, Inductors
And Toroidal Cores-- I can taste 
The sodder steam brining the air.


We banter like waves bouncing--
Reverberating-- 
Balancing on a laser one-atom-wide.


And to me, 
His wisdom is as comforting as the steam brimming 
From that coil of metal.


It adheres to me.


Behind my eyes.


As soft as wax that coats our kitchen floors.


And suddenly,
I cannot hear you over the static.
An interruption, an interference,
A loose signal or even a shout.


Three Dots
Three Dashes.
Three Dots.


Bounce back?


Tick… 
Tick…
Tick… Across the line of a telegraph wire?


Will you remember to lift my finger?
Clasp mine between your own,
Release my print and lift 
the stamp from my heart?


Or will you tell me:
This is only a Receiver.
Not a Transmitter.


Catatonic silence rots wires.


Grip this cold battery in a quaking fist
Refrigerator mist folding across cheeks
Whenever you reach into a vegetable drawer
For a button cell battery.


Ions and lightning will always
Cry loud and clean. 


Listen.
________________
38. Harvest Moon
[SG]


My heart is full
        Of worms.
A basket overflowing
        With corn
At the peak of season.


I gave three ears 
        To family.
A bushel
        To future worries.
And the rest to rot
        At the feet of a silent straw man.


Two kernels remain
        Rolling wetly around a wicker rim.
To rest in a puddle
Of muddy autumn tears.


So I give one to you
And keep the other for me,
Balanced between
The soft pads of our fingertips.


And when you squeeze
Sweet water pools from a split,
In butter yellow skin
You dab wet my bloodless lips.


And that golden pearl drops
        Plump and pristine,
Rolling from the fist 
of my open hand--
To fall into mulch
And be swarmed by ants.
________________
39. Ballerina on a Street Corner
[SG]


Her arm hangs out
Limp at the wrist,
Swaying and bobbing 
Catching on concrete cracks 
And the bitter air makes her thumb tingle.


He mom hangs out
Wrist tight at the hip,
Limbs balanced and stacked
Her fist gripping a stroller
The wheals caught between sidewalk panels.


Chains rattle and click
As the fence is gripped,
And a crucifix
Is balanced
Between two fingertips.


And yet,
Her arm hangs out
Limp at the wrist,
And mom stands so 
straight she’s crooked.
Standing on a street
Where hands grip chains,
And hands grip strollers.


A baby’s hand down 
Open and asking,
For a crack 
of concrete sailing--


--or an iron rattle
From a fence,
Or christ,
Or her weak arm
To be pulled back
To rest in her stroller. 
________________
[1] The F-1 Visa is required for foreign nationals to enter the United States as a full-time student.
[2]  The H1-B Visa is required of foreign workers working temporarily in the U.S. in specialty occupations. A specialty occupation requires the application of specialized knowledge and a bachelor's degree or the equivalent of work experience, usually in STEM or business fields. 
[3] See Senator Tom Cotton’s remark.
[a]Titled "October" in the Zacket, but I cannot find it in the submissions folder.