In Which a Young Fellow Learns a Valuable Lesson
For a number of bewildering and vaguely depressing reasons, Parker Arquette, a freelance waiter and rumored male prostitute, found himself crossing the country in a decrepit grey sedan. Parker sat in the backseat in between Louisiana Ruffles, a severely obese man who owned the digital media conglomerate ‘Truth to Flower,’ and Florentine, an opera-singer-for-hire whose real name was Bertha. In the front passenger seat, there sat a man named Robby Muffins, who was a divorce attorney with a lucrative career path and retirement plans. The man driving the car went by the name of Smith and he was a poet of positively miniscule standing in the greater Boston artistic community. The man in the trunk of the car was of absolutely no relevance whatsoever to the larger scheme of things and therefore merits no further mention.
“The smell of armpits overwhelms me,” Smith whispered. Parker casually tucked his nose directly into the pit of his arm and remembered that he hadn’t washed himself in two weeks due to a series of mishaps that all seemed to stem from his decision seven years ago to pursue an English major. 
A large sign on the side of the long and lonely highway announced that they had just crossed into Wisconsin. They would drive straight through and over to Minnesota where Florentine would perform a brief concert for the Association of Minnesotan Taxidermy Professionals. After this they would continue their trek to the Pacific Ocean, to sunny California, where each of these disparate people would go their separate ways. In the meantime, Parker, the young man in question, was meant to be writing a probing, fascinating, and adenoidal piece on Florentine’s successful career in the arts. An operatically-gifted woman, Florentine had managed to turn her talent into a money-making phenomenon through sheer hard work and an industrious spirit that reveled in the cruel arena of world-class opera. Now people of great wealth and power hired her to sing them heart-wrenching and soul-molesting arias. Parker was unsure of how he could possibly write a piece of journalism that had the symptoms of a human being with enlarged adenoids, but he would sure give it a shot. 
This assignment was the first time Parker would ever receive cold hard mulla for his writing efforts. Louisiana had agreed to employee Parker for one reason: Parker was willing to work for one-quarter the pay any respectable professional would have demanded. In order to ensure that Parker, a man known for his many failures, would not fail, Louisiana had decided to accompany him on this wild ride. Robby joined them as Florentine’s legal counsel, and Smith, Parker’s roommate, forced himself into the situation despite the fact that no one wanted him there.
        Parker, being a man worthy of extensive background information, was a recent graduate of an east-coast university of middling reputation. He had a degree in English and had read Ulysses. He was also a failure. His first attempt at a writing career had ended in disaster when a spelling mishap in a widely-distributed column about cheese curds led to a minor international incident. This had led to Parker’s painful and yet hilarious downfall. Now, as rumors of male prostitution ran rampant, Parker was attempting to put his liberal arts education to good use and finally rake in the fat stacks.  
        “Since graduation, most of my money comes from my job as a freelance waiter,” Parker told Florentine, as the car sped down the abandoned highway. 
        “So do you write short stories or magazine pieces or something?” Florentine asked.
        “No, I go to various restaurants and take people’s orders,” Parker said. “I say ‘you guys’ a lot and sometimes even get tips.”
        “Oh,” Florence said. “Freelance waiter.”
        “Yeah, but I’m hoping to make something of myself through hard work and perseverance.”
        “Follow your dreams, little man. Someday maybe you’ll reach them.”
“Thank you very much for the advice, Ms. Florentine. It means a lot coming from a successful artist such as yourself.”
“Yeah, I’m great. Now, just to let you know, I have some friends in Minnesota who could use the services of an ugly, little male prostitute, and I figured you could use the work so….”
Parker’s heart dropped. Not in the literal sense that it fell into his gut or something along those lines, but in a figurative manner, meaning that the feeling of hope and achievement he had moments earlier was crushed by the reminder that he was widely assumed to be a male prostitute. 
“I am not, nor have I ever been, a male prostitute,” Parker said, crossing his arms in a show of seriousness. “All that happened was I contracted a fungal infection on my face from sleeping in a bed that, unbeknownst to me, was riddled with venereal disease. This is the kind of thing that happens when you’re a penniless English major attempting to make a living in the urban jungle.”
        Parker looked at himself in the rearview mirror. Florentine turned toward the window. It can only be assumed she did this to avoid the ugliness of Parker, who clearly disgusted her with his armpit stank and funny-lookin’ face.  
        In the front seat, Smith was muttering quietly to himself.
        “My bingbong is leaking / I do not verse / My passion bursts and junks / Across the chasm / Fiery and teeming and piles on piles / Defecation / Rebirth / Sheeming / Glory and Sauce.”
        “Is that a poem about pooping?” Parker asked.
        Smith threw his head back and laughed a laugh of mirthful laughter.
        “Parker, you simpleton,” he said. “If only you knew what this was about. I suspect you might just die.”
        Smith then turned around, which was quite risky considering the fact that he was driving the car, and hung a small plastic sign around the back of his headrest. This sign read: “I AM BETTER THAN YOU AND ALWAYS WILL BE.” Smith was the type of person who submitted his poems to literary magazines and then used the term ‘Philistines’ when they were invariably rejected. He had never earned a cent in his life and yet somehow remained smug and self-assured. This was because his mother was the CEO of a major insurance company. Parker had once tried to tear Smith’s arm off during an episode of debauchery and keytar-playing in their Allston apartment and their roommate relationship has since grown steadily worse.  
        Smith returned his full attention to driving. Florentine (whose real name, it must be remembered, is Bertha) began to sing the impressive aria ‘Casta Diva’ from Bellini’s ‘Norma.’ Robby, from his position in the passenger seat, slipped her a little bit of cash money for her troubles. Few have ever known how deeply Robby Muffins loves opera. 
        Parker turned to Louisiana, whose copious beer belly was pressed up against the seat in front of him.
        “Louisiana, I think I’m starting to have regrets about taking this trip,” he said. “I’m extremely unhappy with my life, myself, and everyone around me. Sometimes, I burst into tears in the shower, which is convenient because I can wipe the snot away on my arm without being gross, but still remains painful and inconvenient in an emotional way. Other times I wake up feeling empty and alone, with nowhere to go and nothing but dread for my future.”
        “No no no no no no no,” Louisiana said. “We’ll have none of that now. No one wants to hear that depressing bologna. You’re being paid to amuse and enthuse, buddy.”
        Robby Muffins turned around and pointed a swollen finger at Parker. He slowly moved the finger closer to Parker’s nose until eventually he lightly tapped the greasy little bulb that sat in the middle of Parker’s face. 
        “If you were a more practical man you would be in my position,” Robby said. “Do you think I wake up feeling like a sack of turds? No, because I’m a lawyer. I have health benefits and an impressive salary. Mr. Muffins is living the life of the upper middle-class, baby. Seven years of school and then I’m living large in a barge. That’s right, I own a barge. I bought it because I have money, and I’m not a broke English major failure like you. Know what I’ve read? Nothing. I read The Great Gatsby in middle school and then just gave up on books because they’re stupid. And guess what? Society values me more than you, because I contribute. I make things happen while you sit at home farting and weeping like the child you are.”
        No one spoke for a second. Florentine stopped singing her aria. 
        “OK,” Parker said. 
        Robby smiled, pleased that he had conveyed his message. Florentine began singing the ‘Lacrimosa’ from Mozart’s Requiem.
        “Listen here Parker,” Louisiana said, sighing a sigh. “All you need to know is that this is the car you’re in, and I’m going to pay you when you do your job, and you should be happy to have the opportunity to be in this car with these people making money. Don’t you like classical music? Enjoy listening to Florentine, if nothing else.”
        “Actually, I’m more of an Alt-Country and Nu-Folk fan.”
        With that one sentence, Parker lost the sympathy of the entire car. Even the guy in the trunk thought Parker was the worst. In the ensuing silence, Parker gazed out the window, as he was prone to do and introspected. 
        “You know I’m from here?” he said to no one in particular. 
        Florentine looked out the window at the passing Wisconsin farmland.
        “I’m sorry,” she said. 
        “Just stop talking and sit there,” Louisiana said. “Eventually we’ll make it to California.”
        “What if I don’t want to go to California?” Parker said. “What if I don’t want this job at all? What if I’m searching for some sort of lesson that I have been promised but that seems increasingly impossible to find in this cramped car of cartoonish collusion?”
        “Alliteration won’t get you anywhere, young man. If you don’t want to go to California, you go to California anyway. California’s where the money is. It’s where everyone wants you to go. You chose to get in this car, now finish the damn ride.”
        Parker chewed on some dead lip skin. Louisiana cracked a beer that he had hidden away under the folds of his stomach and drank it. 
“O.K, listen to this,” he said. “I have some comforting words: We’re all going to die. Death is around every corner, so hold onto your pantaloons and do what I tell you. After work, you can drink until you pass out, and everyone will be happy.”
        “Robby Muffins should have a bigger role in this conversation,” Robby Muffins said. “Seeing as Robby Muffins went to law school and made something of himself, while Parker Arquette is, and always will be, a bum.”
        “Stay right here, Parker,” Louisiana said. “Just close your eyes and accept it.”
        Parker looked out the window at the expansive Wisconsin scenery as it flew by. The sound of Nu-Folk began to fill his ears: the beautiful, immediately-recognizable tambour of Johnny Flynn and the Sussex Wit, his favorite Nu-Folk band. Man oh man did Parker love his Nu-Folk. And that really means love in the legitimate sense of a self-sacrificing commitment, not in the ‘oh, I love you second-cousin Patricia, you’re the best’ kind of way. 
        “What’s this crap on the radio?” Smith said. “This sucks.”
        “Pull this car over right now,” Parker said. Bones were sticking straight out of the camel’s straw-covered back. 
        “Why?”
        “Do it. I’m tired of your stupid, self-important face. If you can’t appreciate the lyrical and melodic genius of Johnny Flynn, you’re not worth my time.”
        “We broke Parker,” Robby Muffins said.
        “It’s a folk song,” Louisiana said. “Don’t go nuts because Smith doesn’t like it. Smith writes poems about pooping, what does he matter?”
        “It’s Nu-Folk,” Parker screamed. “And I’m a big fan.”
        “This is about a lot more than Nu-Folk,” Florentine said. “I understand you Parker, even if I think you’re kind of dumb and annoying.”
        “Pull over, Smith,” Parker repeated, speaking through gritted teeth as the overwhelming and suffocating stench of his own armpits filled the air. 
        “Why?” Smith said. “I’m not clear on the reason. Is this some sort of dumbass metaphor? We are in the middle of Wisconsin farmland. We could get deliveranced out here for God’s sake. If I die, my pen will never be able to gleam the contents of my teeming brain.”
        Parker began repeating ‘Just pull over’ in a loud, nasal tone of voice that felt like someone funneling buckets of bacon fat into your ears: greasy and unpleasant. Eventually, Smith acquiesced, declaring in a loud voice “I’m acquiescing.”
        Parker crawled over Louisiana’s mammoth stomach and pushed open the door. A grain silo stood in the distance past miles and miles of grass and distant trees, sunlight and overgrowth. He leapt onto the shoulder of the road, gravel crunching under foot, and took off running into the empty and far-stretching fields, leaving the car and the road and the endless, meaningless chatter behind. Louisiana screamed after him while Robby Muffins laughed at his foolishness, but he kept running full-sprint into the wind, a goofy smile plastered across his face. 














Villanelle Hypothetical 
My mother rolled her neck; “What if,” I said,
“Cinderella had never lost her shoes,
Money is made from air, and God is dead?


And the girl’s hood was really green, not red?
And Negroland had never learned the blues?”
My mother rolled her neck; “What if,” I said,


“Negroland could afford their daily bread,
And Tom Robinson’s final words were, ‘Adieu
Money is made from air, and God is dead.’


And what if MLK was not shot dead?
Then who or where would our eyes look up to?”
My mother rolled her neck; “What if,” I said,


“The boy can’t cry wolf because he’s a man?
And from all these years, Life reveals one truth—
Money is made from air, and God is dead.


What if I become everything I dread?
And we aren’t one in millions, but few?”
My mother rolled her neck; “What if,” I said,
“Money is made from air, and God is dead?”






{UNTITLED FOR NOW}
Dad, the bus rolls by without stopping for me;
The driver is probably in a tired
                                        Hurry like most of us are
We still don’t have the hang of
                Working the grill and the
                                        Weeds in the yard are thriving
Waiting for the yard guys to come, or one of the neighbor’s sons. I think
I am                                         the daughter you
Wanted to raise. It’s Spring here, or Winter, or Fall—
        They all feel the same in Jasper: blue skies, sudden 
                                Rainstorms that terrorize the landscape for half an hour,
        And sometimes Mom is crying. Linds is changing the color
Of her room because girls shouldn’t like pink. Frankie is going to Auburn to play baseball
Like you did. Mom and I know 
He likes football more and wanted to go to Louisville. 
Mom still won’t travel by plane or drive near the airport
Prom is next weekend
 And all 
The girls are taking                 pictures with 
The fathers they do have. For months I have been thinking what a father means to his daughter:
Watching how a boy treats his mother because
                                                        That is how he will treat me. Folding my hands
‘        Into a solid fist, throwing a punch, but teaching that ladies only 
Fight to protect themselves. Yelling and loving and seeming
        Tough and unapproachable. When I change a tire or jump a car,
                                Seeing your XL flannels hanging in the closet with your scent faintly dangling on the last threads I think:
                                        This is it. 
Canto III

I am a motel named Crimson Keep
with tattered drapes and silent dreams
the walls and doors cross stitched like seams
And here is where my Lucy sleeps

nestled tight beneath the bed
she cuddles with my angel’s head
its halo shimmers the nipbar light
so I let my seraphim cry at night

while Lucy ushers in the inferno tide
my corners crouching whisper hell and hide












































Cattle Prod

There are jagged orange songs
at the Milk Bar tonight
trembling the nervous game up our thighs

Bodies numb from red severed minds
and I am young, my back is tender
my flesh is free and roams in green

The Farmers look like parching lips
and I do not notice I am an udder ripe
will I be drunk at the Milk Bar tonight

















































Katabasis


Dull is life in the slow beat
That does not match the jackal heart
ravenous, dying vibrant like November red
whose teeth do jaw and jar the sky
bleeding dawn like passion rose 
knock the Jericho drum in my chest
heaven's walls collapsing like a punctured lung breathless;
dare my wild mind, mad bone, truth flesh
quick march me to abandon's black hood
smiling before the beast's gray teeth
pumping hard like living meat
Dull is life in the slow beat




































































11:43


I have come to melt into the smell of his skin. There is
no place that contains me quite so well as
the curve of his jaw when I nestle my face there and he
tells me he likes it when I do that. Like the face


of a warm little cat finds home and sleep on your chest, rising
and falling with soft, even breaths. There is no comfort like 
laced fingers that linger despite slightly 
damp palms and the way his eyes 
look so green in a dark room, with only a sliver of the moon


falling between opaque curtains. I have never liked the darkness
alone, but I’d be a night owl with him, stubbly kisses 
and all. And even wish a little wish
that the daylight hours could delay, for the silent company
of words that fade into sleepy breaths. 
























































Holy Water


I would love them all the more
if my feeble heart could let me:
the speckled, broken firmament that kisses 
the strip of skin at the part of my hair,
and the soft earth who holds my feet in place.
Her gooey soil embraces my soles,
damp and tender at the base of rubber boots. 
But how can human love hold it all
in a heart that delicately depends 
on such sustenance? The heavens must pour fourth 
their goblets of grace to feed our food,
and we, wide-eyed and open-mouthed,
merely wait, to be nourished with a love
we cannot understand. 






























































Once On Scorched Earth 


I


This memory ascends like a tower of flames, 
heat licking at lacquered wood panels of rusted corridors. 
Her strands of bloody gold make streams of angel hair; it flows quick and furious, 
and I stand inches above the rage wishing just to drown in it,
once it wrapped me in warmth, but has returned in this memory, 
and I fear it will run dry again. 


II


Don’t you remember?
Movements draped in white linen, silhouette ivory moon,
each step a gentle poison, each breath a silent swoon.
Since the dawn you walked, with autumn falling soft,
we met, you smiled, I waited while you washed.
The bones of hard-fought union lay smooth and bare,
as they felt your toes curl the moss of an older grove,
sparked alive, marrow restored.




III


Dead love sails through the hazy airs of morning dreams
recollections of beauty returning as
I lie surrounded by fire, skulls and teeth
glutton clay mulched by our remains;
we met here, under night’s haven.
Yet with the awakened sun
we burned, as you whispered low and heavy
Stay. 
We drifted lonely, far away.


Soothe the skin chipping like scorched earth,
one last time, embrace, succumb,
and sink to the soil in silent rebirth.














Image
inspired by the story of Abdul Basit
This isn’t the look
of a murderer
I pictured
Satan ears a twitching
smirk.


Paralyzed waist down
picture snapped neck up.
If his eyes told the story,
I would’ve thought 
a man’s resolve 
was proof of innocence.


He’s the first who can’t
reach the execution point 
on his own feet
but he wouldn’t be the first 
to be hiding wings.




















































Her (Sestina)
Amidst headlong human traffic, he plucks the banjo
strings in the city square. Feet tapping together
to the music, the others miss the bicycle
circling around the fountain like a pair of lips
around another – gentle and delicate.
Yesterday she wasn’t wearing any shoes.


Today she’s wearing clean white shoes,
pedaling in rhythm with the strumming of the banjo.
His eyes dart quickly between her delicate
wrists and the steel strings that dance together
between his fingers the way his lips
tremble at the sight of her pink bicycle.


The fountain splashes water on the bicycle,
but she remains untouched. Her dry shoes
step off the pedals and her wet lips
purse slightly. She admires the banjo – 
in that moment they lock gaze together
until she realizes her eyes are too delicate.


For the nightfall today is delicate,
she hides herself behind the bicycle
until a strange man comes to get her.
He pictures the stranger taking off her shoes,
yet his fingers still ride on the rusty banjo
strings. He pictures her scarred lips.


He pictures a field of tulips
to distract his mind. His delicate
fingers bleed against the worn-out banjo
strings. The night swallows her bicycle
and tosses around her body and her shoes
in a room where they don’t belong together. 


She rises from the bed to gather
the money. She cannot keep her lips
from trembling. She doubts her white shoes
will tell the story of her delicate
self when she returns for the bicycle
she left with the man with the banjo.


She walks back to the square with shoes
in her hands. He takes the laces between his delicate
fingers and makes out new strings for his banjo. 


X
I’m looking for you amongst the immense, illiterate, consoling angels,
searching for your tone of meaning 
but without the words,
how the collapse of foam and liquid sand
remind me of your raspy voice and its salty kiss of withdrawal.


I’m trying to resurrect the conjunction of the mind 
and opposition of the stars,
the stain of love,


that taste of transcendence in the night air
when I devoured myself with your eyes.
















































The Common
I walk slowly in the sun,
naked to the grass,
a child of ancient myth
who let his gods
slowly die
in the blue dominions
of the half dreamt 
open sky,
an emptiness,
aloft
in the wind blowing past,
like a bee
making love to flowers 
and swarming in the hive,
oozing honey
heavy with sunlight
and buzzing by
like a bird
whose doesn’t know
about time,
but still feels the pull
of earth’s magnetic heart.




































Pesky Memory


You made our PB&Js
With too much jelly,
Just how I like them.


We carried them
To our private beach
Hidden by snaking vines.


I jumped first
Into the cool crick
Still brown from last week’s rain.


You waded in slowly
With tentative steps,
Goosebumps up your arms.


We laid on our rock
While sun freckled our skin.
That warmth under our eyelids.












































Earthworms


We used to play pretend in Whole Foods, hide amongst the displays of avocados and leeks, and scare Mama into thinking we might touch the fish with the eyeballs still in them laying in freezer beds of shredded ice. We used to sit on the old yellow couch together, and I used to make you watch Harry Potter over and over even though you never had the patience to read the books and you didn’t like The Prisoner of Azkaban, but you went along with it just like you used to let me eat one of your chicken nuggets at dinner when you were still hungry. We used to sleep in the same bed because I was scared of burglars even though we live in the woods and our house still isn’t visible on Google Earth, and you would let me tell the kids at school that you would crawl in beside me at night, not the other way around. We used to dig in the wet mulch by the front porch back when it was painted green, not brown, looking for gold or diamonds or blue sapphires, like the earrings Daddy gave Mama for Christmas one year, and you would laugh at me when I squealed because I didn’t like getting dirt under my fingernails while you were covered in mud, head to toe, and we were always happy even when our treasure turned out to be earthworms. 


Now when I come home from school you look at me and shake your head because I don’t know that Jeremy is the boy who likes you who’s committed to Brown and DJ is the boy who likes you who’s committed to Stanford and you’re having trouble deciding between them. Now when I call you, you don’t pick up because you’re sleeping with either Jeremy who’s committed to Brown or DJ who’s committed to Stanford and I don’t know which one and when I try to ask later you ignore my question and demand we go to McDonald’s, and you never offer to share your fries even when I offer to pay. Now when I’m scared at night it’s because you don’t sleep in your bedroom next door to mine anymore even though Mom and Dad bought you a new mattress and bedframe because the old one reminded you of where you sat when you wrote the note I found under my bed two years ago, the one that made me cry and wish you’d kept the sadness inside you. Now when I step outside your car is gone so I stand on the brown porch and I close my eyes, imagining the feeling of wet mulch beneath my bare feet and dirt against my palms, and I wonder if you’re ever coming back.  




























Chopsticks
        She tells me, fingers sliding up and down the length of her plastic chopsticks. She tells me over appetizers of steamed dumplings and salted edamame, at a table beside the floor-to-ceiling windows of P. F. Chang’s in the Providence Place Mall. She tells me, her voice void of emotion, as if she isn’t fourteen and I’m not seventeen and we’re mature enough to talk about these things. 
        She tells me, “They had me in the psych ward.” 
        I shift my weight around on the wooden high-top seat. It is 60 degrees in December and I am uncomfortable. In a month I will be back here, sitting in a booth on the opposite side of the restaurant with my mom. She will be talking about how no one expected this from my sister; how no one ever thought she might be sad. It will be two weeks before my eighteenth birthday, when my dad will forget to call because he is too preoccupied with the hospital bills. My mom will be eating lettuce wraps and will tell me that they don’t call it the Psych Ward. It’s the Psychiatry Emergency Services, but my sister doesn’t know that.  
        I watch my sister reach for a dumpling, refusing to make eye contact. She asks me if I knew that the pediatrician comes to visit your hospital room when you wind up there. I tell her I didn’t. Three years later I will think of her when Professor Powers mentions doctor’s hospital visits during Law and Ethics (Tuesday/Thursday 3:00-4:15, BSLW110202). We will be studying the doctor-didn’t-save-his-patient’s-life-on-his-day-off problem (#1, page 44). I will be thinking I’m relieved that she’s finally okay. 
        She chews and swallows the dumpling before adding, “They’ve got me on Prozac.” 
I squeeze an edamame bean out of its pod and onto a side dish. I love you, I want to say, but I inhale the words and let them float down my esophagus into a sea of stomach bile where they will dissipate. Why is this happening?
        She stares at the plate and the bean. “Dad cried.” 
        I wonder if she knows that he called and told me the Sunday after it happened; that I was hanging out with my new college friends in my new college dorm when my phone started ringing and, at first, I didn’t want to pick up. I wonder if she knows that I couldn’t tell anyone because it was a Big Family Secret; that I hid in my room for three days and faked sick because I couldn’t look my future best friends in the eyes and say everything was okay. I wonder if she knows that I blame her for not knowing that people care; that I am guilty for feeling angry, but cannot stop. I wonder if she knows that I cried, too. 
        “It was horrible.”
        I squeeze a second bean out of the edamame pod. It rolls on to the side dish and then off the edge, on to the tabletop. She leans in towards me and flicks the stray on to the floor with one chopstick. I watch it bounce twice before rolling underneath the floorboard radiator. 
        In two weeks I will be cleaning out under my bed in my childhood room and will find the white binder with the printout of the lyrics to Billy Joel’s We Didn’t Start the Fire hole-punched and fitted into the rings. I will find the note on lined paper in the binder’s plastic sleeve, and I will know the handwriting is hers because it is crooked and refuses to stay between the lines. I will slide the note out carefully and see Dear Mom and Dad printed at the top. 
        I’m really sorry. I’ve tried to get help and be happy, but I don’t think I’m good at it and maybe I wasn’t meant to. Don’t forget that I love you guys. Hold Sophia and Elise tight for me. I’m really sorry. 
        She will have signed it but never have left it. I will read the words and wish I hadn’t. 
        She looks up at me, poking her chopsticks into the last dumpling on the plate in front of her. “I think I’ll be okay now.”
        I wonder if she knows that I don’t believe her, because even though no one will say the word I know exactly what almost happened. 
        “I think so too,” I lie. 
        “Chicken lo mien? Orange chicken?” 
        I turn to my left and see the teenage girl in a P. F. Chang’s apron holding two square white plates piled high with noodles and batter-covered meat. The girl places them on the table, and takes with her the empty dumpling plate and bowl of edamame pods. 
        My sister smiles halfheartedly at the chicken and sighs. I think about how badly wish I were that stray bean that she had knocked off the table, hiding away under the radiator. But I say nothing else, watching her as she eats, and wonder how long ago it was that she learned to use chopsticks. 












Nice Dream


For Sun Ra


Can you picture?
Black—blackest night
And forty quadrillion
megaton supercore
Hot—summer vacation
hot in there plus
hell-hot, but in space.
"Space is the place!”
One day we’ll get there
where there 500-foot trees of light
covering purple eclipse sky and
sickle-leaves of white lighting velvet panorama horizon,
speckled with supergiant gods blowing infinite sandbox
and halloween trunk which leaves no doubt
that the sublime is both beautiful and terrible
Over here trees of fire, too,
Keep walking see cities Atlantean buried beneath the lunar craters
From a time when people were better, stronger than today’s men


[All of this is enormously expensive and takes a toll on that familiar mother-son love
More than a year’s salary could ever cover for even a one-way trip with an hour’s worth of oxygen]


















One Day You Will Be Judged


My hypothetical mother
Welcomes me home after
A hard day at fifth grade.
We make scones and drink tea by the warm stove.


I go to my room and remove my backpack and coat
And complete math homework with a yellow pencil
And social studies with a blue pen,
And that’s all I have for the night.
I play board games against myself while mom makes dinner.


Dad comes home in his big red coat and furry hat,
And says, “Feel my hands,” and I do,
They are very cold because he was outside
Where it is beginning to snow lightly—
“But not enough for a snow day,” Mom says.


As I lie in bed tonight I think about how much of my life is gone.
I am eleven now and if I live to a hundred,
And eleven times nine is ninety-nine, which is close enough,
Then I’m already like a ninth done with my life.


I realize this and begin to sob uncontrollably,
And I plan to take refuge in the middle years
Like twenty or twenty six—
When I’m cool and wearing sunglasses.


Tomorrow I will wake up and be perhaps eighty-seven
Shopping at Safeway with the senior discount
And everyone will watch me slip and fall on milk
And break my hip and die.


























Meditation for Modernity


I must walk.
Cro-Magnon man walked and walked
With his club
And hadn’t a care in the world!


What a joy it is to be stupid and alone and hairy
And not own a shirt
And see my breath in the wasteland
And shit in the dark.


To have irrational arms and strange, pleasant dreams
About Norwegian princesses in caves.


Hushed husband and rude wife:
Somehow this is more pleasing than stewing the irradiated bed
And champing pixels all day in front of TV.


To have no thought of pockets or what to put in them!
To sing brown songs to mountain and green tree!
To run and climb on hard gray faces!
To worship the sun and ogle the moon!
And wake up unguilty and covered in blisters.










































Hypothetical Phallus Thrusts


Hypothetical phallus thrusts cleanly
Bleached anus over the vast horizon
As if miserable, seeing how badly
We fucked up the economy,
Which is somehow green,
My next-door neighbor, Tom, insists at sunrise,
Popping a Xanax with loud coffee,
Which is “his,” though someone dissimilar
Made it in Brazil, which starts with “Bra,” it occurs to me.


At work, three great stacks wait
Upon my desk for the car to get started
And take me there.
My car takes me everywhere—
It doesn’t care.
Both the car and I need to burn things
For energy and to get out of bed in the morning.
I burn Frosted Flakes and Pop Tarts!


















































Missaukee County Lumber Mill


It’s been years since
I’ve walked hot sand with splintered feet,
dragging driftwood to shore because
my grandfather told tales of loggers


and images of white pine rivers barreling eastward
towards the train tracks
made me feel responsible for the sunken marrow
of the lumberjacks’ makeshift bridge.


I think about how I wanted to be part of the mundane history.


And later when my sister tries to separate wood from flesh,
I can’t help but wince with sawdust skin and sap thick blood.


























































PULLING HAIR
A girl told me last night I need to stop pulling hair. She says it freaks people out. She says she wonders why I always do that. She says I need to understand what I look like. I try to tell her I don’t understand what I look like. She says I’m large. I tell her I feel sad. She tells me again, stop pulling hair. I try to tell her that it is not supposed to be mean but I don’t know what else to do with my hands. I try to tell her I like it when they pull my hair and make my neck fold back and my adams apple pushes forward like a pearl from an oyster, ready to be plucked and strung around a girl’s neck. I try to tell her that I don’t want to hurt anyone but I need them to hurt me I swear to god there’s a hundred thousand hairs coming out of my scalp and I need them all yanked up from me at the same time I want to feel like my brain is being slung out of my skullplace and brought into the world where she stands in dark air before me breathing white onto my collar bones and tells me to stop pulling hair.






















































MY BODY COMES CHEAP
My body comes cheap, my body comes free to
those who put in a little effort, a little flex in
their muscles, a little sweat on their temples.
That’s all I ask. My body comes cheap, my bod
comes free to anyone forcing my lips on their chest,
holding me against the door with curled fingers and
asking me questions I have to answer, I have to
answer you when you look at me like that and I’ll
come with you if you ask and my shirt unbuttons like
yours and I can feel that ice scream scoop that was
taken out of my chest the first time I had sex and left
me laughing at myself like a goddamn maniac
you can have my body it comes so cheap to anyone
who asks.


















































After Hurricane Frances / Before the Power Company


There’s another one coming—

I forgot to ask if you’re okay, I wonder

if you still slip into the sidewalk rivers, if

you shriek down our golf course hills, grass

stuck to your soles like eyelashes.


Frances was the middle child,

the brat. It knocked out electricity for a week

and we slept on bare mattresses, screen door

flapping, joyous. Shingles

like flecks of ash.


We shone and stuck to wooden floors

incandescent. Sweat out our salt

so that we didn’t cry for years, after.

Mud sidled up to our fingernails,

wind whistling, not Tchaikovsky, but something.

Simpler, sweeter.


Did you remember to bolt those panels, that

used to press flush against window panes, pressed

up against our lips and noses, searching

for a hint of light, for a sign

the storm had passed.


Maybe you have those electric shutters now.


Finally, there was a reprieve

through the skylight. We flashed our


teeth, fierce. Does your face still

turn toasted in the summer?


Can you still feel August clinging

to your skin?




























































four times death bumped me on the street
for Cesare Pavese


I. My mother finds me
in the shower and the water is
now cold and she screams for
my father, Nick
something’s wrong.

II. We buy three euro wine
drink under the Eiffel Tower
the way people did, before.
There's women wailing and Connor
yanks me down, instinct,
fear winds my throat like copper wire
We’re tugged into a strange apartment,
and we turn on the news and there
is a dead girl on the floor of
the cafe that isn't me and
we don't touch the
last bottle of wine.

III. It happens five feet
away in the pothole laden streets
of Guadalajara and if I press my fingers
the asphalt that crumbles like marzipan
I'd be able to touch it. To touch
the popping like ear drums
and policia brush a little bit
of him from my jeans and I vomit
on the pavement. I still can't hear
a car backfire without- 


IV. I don't remember this one—
my father, mouth pinched
around the word reckless. I'm
twelve and my temple feels sweet
and sticky, lungs rubbed raw like a Brillo
pad. I was diving with my eyes closed,
the salt water stung.
I'm not allowed to swim for the rest
of summer, which is fine—
the ocean sounds like my mother, screaming
for my father Nick, something’s wrong.






The Clinic

we’re hanging off your bed. you—longer lately, hair brushing at the carpet

me—thick tongued after your mother’s wine. you turn—I’m struck by how

eye contact is the same upside down. punch me in the stomach, you say.


we do that exchange girls do with their eyes—are you sure?

how far? you weren’t safe?— all at once. you crinkle me into a fist—

piano fingers, weak wristed, palms cut with thick fault lines.


please, you say. we stand and gravity does this thing to your eyes that nighttime

does to the neighbors lawns. in the aisle of a drugstore you wash it down

with diet desperation. we aren’t quite sure if there’s anything



to grieve that day, so we smart like fresh cuts at the sounds

of The Smiths on the way home, and I dig half moons into my palms

while I pretend you are only hiccupping from the soda.


when you do it for real, I stay tightlipped and unlicensed and you don’t

cry in the front seat like you did in ninth grade and I run my fingers through

my eyelashes like heart strings, mourning the things we should have mourned, then.






















Blood Pact
Scotty could count the number of times she had seen her mother cry on her left hand. Left, because that was the hand she had stuck blindly into a snapping turtle nest when she was just about ten years old. She was looking for the speckled eggs, that she would roll down the ashy pavement of her driveway like marbles. 
She came away without a pinky and an index, howling like a coyote. 
They made the trip to the hospital for that one, two towns over, and the doctor looked at her mother.
“Did you happen to get the fingers?” he said, brusque, as if fingers fell off as often as flower petals. “If they’ve been recovered, we can talk about reattachment.”
Her mother gave him a strange look.
“Honey, have you ever tried to stick your hand in a snapping turtle’s mouth?”
“No Ma’am,” he responded dutifully.
“Take my word for it—those fingers are good as gone.”
On the way home, Scotty was subjected to a miserable lecture and a ban from playing outside—even in the citrus grove—for the rest of the fall. It was an unusually cruel punishment. She’d even miss that week when the endless heat would finally break, and it would rain for days and days, and all the little grubs would poke their way out of the soil, ready to be collected in her little silver bucket.
“I just—” her mother sighed as she wound down. “What possessed you, Prescott?”
“I dunno,” Scotty muttered, peeved at the use of her full name. She wriggled the stumps of her fingers experimentally. She figured she could still climb.
“You can’t be so impulsive, okay?”
Something strange happened to her mother’s voice—it got all crinkly, like she wasn’t sucking in enough air— and Scotty looked up. Her eyes were red, as if she had smoked too many cigarettes and leaking, like the pipe in their kitchen, all over her skin.
“Mom,” she said, soft. “I’m sorry.”
That was the first time she had seen her mother cry. It was also the first time she realized her mother was strong—not strong like Scotty, she couldn’t climb high or run fast or anything—but she was strong in a different way. In a way that showed on her face.
***
The next time she cried, there were no turtles. Scotty had shot up several feet over the years. She felt stretched and gangly now, and when she ran her fingers across her face in the mirror that hung on the trailer’s bathroom door, her skin felt too thin. She felt foreign in her body in a way she never had before, with an acute awareness of the skin that hung too loose and the swell of her new breasts. Her father had stopped visiting since Scotty went and asked him for money for medicine. She got walloped for that one.
               “I told you to never go to that man,” her mother growled, low and throaty. It caused a little cough and Scotty imagined the white rot rooting itself in the back of her throat, winding in little silver webs down to her lungs. The side of her face smarted from her mother’s palm.
               “He’s my father,” Scotty said, outraged.
“Not in anyway that counts.” Her mother’s pride filtered through her teeth and infiltrated her voice. Scotty didn’t understand it. What does pride get you? She wanted to scream. A trailer in the middle of bum fuck nowhere? Some shitty trees? 
“He owes you!” she spat instead. Her mother recoiled visibly, and Scotty softened. “Can’t you see that he owes you?” 
She felt terrible guilt as her mother blinked fervently, swallowed several times in a concerted effort, and turned away towards the kitchenette. The trailer wasn’t conducive to them fighting. That was why Scotty spent her life outside, with no roof to press her down. She could scream and rave at the sky, and the rain would come. Somehow, that made it better.
               Her mother wrung a rag in the sink. When she finally turned around, her face was wet and pinched. She pressed the terry cloth against her daughter’s cheek.
               “Sweetheart, nobody owes nobody anything. Not here.”
Scotty had never been ashamed of her home. She’d never hated her town, not like some of the other kids did, never resented the fact that Conjunction had one grocery store and one church and miles of half dredged swampland that some developers had abandoned long ago. 
But this, the idea that nobody owed nobody, tasted sour. 
The way her mother said it, resigned and soft—soft meant sad—made her want to run and run until she took flight, until the afternoon rain storm picked her up and blew her somewhere else. Somewhere cool and quiet, where people paid their debts.
               Scotty’s mother was good at a lot of things. She was good at sewing—tiny little stitches in Scotty’s jeans, or smeared with Vaseline in her forehead. She could whip up a casserole with a can of creamed corn and odds and ends from the garden. She could coax a plant back to life with a little sunlight, a misting bottle, and sheer will.
               She was not good at being alone.
               So when her father stopped coming around, Scotty knew it was only a matter of time. She wasn’t stupid—she’d learned to be wary of men, with their scratchy voices and sharp smiles. She locked up everything—the ATM card, the checkbook, in a little cigar box that the dark skinned woman who sold vegetables next to Sun Groves gave her. 
        For your secrets, she told Scotty with a wink. Scotty had snorted, they won’t fit, but taken the box anyway.
When the next guy came around, she made herself scarce. She was extra mad that time, because she found a clump of her mother's’ thinning blond hair in the shower drain. Her mother should be resting. Not pulling this shit.
She walked all the way to the gas station, the last Quik Mart before the interstate. There was a pimply teenage boy manning the counter, who traced her with glassy eyes.
               “Whatcha looking for?” he drawled, and she glared. 
               “Nothing you’ve got.” 
She wove through the little aisles of chips and cigarettes, Slim Jims and nicotine gum, until she got to the back door. Behind it was a little cement patio scattered with white plastic chairs, where the owner, Sam, grilled up cubans. It was a Conjunction treasure-- Sam, and the cubans. He always greeted her the same:
               “Your mother know you’re here?”
She’d roll her eyes and say, cheeky, “I’m my own woman, Sam.”
He handed her a sandwich, dripping in grease and mayonnaise and briny pickle juice, and didn’t make her pay. She’d bring him by a Publix paper bag brimming with fruit later in the week. Scotty didn’t take charity. 
Sam had a wall of hanging shotguns out back and a penchant for hunting the pythons that made their way out of the Everglades.
“Invasive fucking snakes,” he would say, darkly. “I can smell them.” 
He was crazy, but he was also the smartest person she’d ever met. He knew all the Seminole stories; he told her all about the old outlaws, even said he’s tried Black Drink—the old hallucinatory drug. He’d always have a paperback tucked in his backpocket: instructional manuals, Westerns, anything.  He knew about everything that happened in and out of town. 
Her mother hated Sam.
Mostly, hated that Scotty spoke to him, and Scotty had learned to evade the subject. Her mother and Sam were distantly related, much like everyone in town, third cousins by marriage or something, and had grown up on the outskirts of each other’s circles. Sam, her mother said, was a drunk. And worse, he was a drunk with a shitton of guns. But Scotty had met drunks; she’d seen them smashing bottles and pissing at the edge of the orange grove. They seemed larger than life: louder, with jarring sharp movements and fumbling hands. Sam wasn’t like that. He worked his way through packs of cheap, golden beer, sure, but Sam was quiet and his hands shook and he wheezed when he laughed. If Sam was a drunk, he was the most harmless alcoholic in Conjunction.
She ate, and he told her a Seminole story. 
The Seminoles lived in Conjunction, back when the swamp ate up all the houses and the interstate, before it got cut back and tamed. They were all the outlaws, banished from their original tribes. They had to band together for survival, but so many wild minds in the oppressive heat often led to uncontrolled violence. All the stuff the best stories were made of. 
He told her about blood pacts, about how people used to make promises by slicing open their palms, pressing the wounds together. Then, they’d pour some of the blood onto the earth, to hold them both accountable. 
“It’s sacred,” he insisted and she listened, mouth full and eyes wide.
“Have you done one?” she asked. 
“Of course,” he said, voice grave. 
“Did you keep it?”
“Sure,” he grinned. “But he didn’t. That’s how I got this,” he said, and pointed at the silky white scar running across his forehead.
To Scotty, the most exciting thing about Sam wasn’t the scars and guns and stories. It was that he’s never left Conjunction in his life. 
“But why,” Scotty asked, around a mouthful of cured ham. “If you could go anywhere, live anywhere, why would you stay here?” 
Sam laughed, light like chimes. 
“But what if I leave, and the whole place isn’t here when I come back?” 
Scotty screwed up her nose. 
“That’s stupid,” she decided. “How could a whole town disappear?” 
“I dunno,” Sam said, and she noted that he was a little slurred. It was quiet, but it was noticeable, and it put her on edge.
“Sinkholes maybe. They take out whole cars on I-4 all the time. Some people say you don’t really know if anything exists forever until you leave it.”
“Who in the hell says that?” Scotty asked, disbelieving. She squinted, accusatory, at the growing collection of amber glass by his feet. 
“Books, I guess,” he said, unhelpfully. “If a tree falls in a forest and no one hears it, that kinda shit.” 
Scotty counted them; he’s on bottle number six, which means it’s getting late, probably after dinner, and she should walk on home and climb into her hammock and glare at the crescent moon. She wouldn’t want to go back in the trailer tonight, even if her mom’s new boyfriend was gone. She was always too upset to.The trailer was theirs, and she had the strangest inclination to open all the windows and let any trace of some stranger be carried away. 
“I won’t leave either,” she said, soft. “I promise.”
She dawdled with the grease stained wax paper. Sam was the smartest person she knew, and if he was drunk enough, he wouldn’t even remember the conversation.
“My mom is sick,” Scotty admitted, a little wobbly. She dug her nails into her upper thigh to gain control of her voice. 
“With what?”
She finally voices her suspicion. “I don’t know, but I think it’s white rot. Can people get that?”
Sam got the look he got when he told the old stories. Like something ancient and terrible was at work.
“What do I do?” she asked. 
“Get on home. White rot only gets the trees,” he said gruffly, and gathered up the bottles and discarded wax paper. “Tell your mama to see a doctor.” 
They both know she wouldn’t. People dying of white rot was a myth, mostly. Outsiders wouldn’t understand it, and her mother would chastise her for believing in the first place.
Scotty felt desperation rise like bile in her throat on the walk home. Her mind raced and her foot caught on pebbles in its desire to keep up. She went sprawling in the dirt and skinned her knee, instinctively popped her thumb in her mouth and swiped at the scrape. It tasted coppery and there was a familiar, almost comforting tang to it. 
She knew what she needed to do.
Instead of heading towards the citrus grove, she booked it towards the trailer, a flood of determination. When she got there, sweaty and catching up to her breath, there was a man smoking outside. 
“Evening,” he said around the filter of a cigarette. “You must be Prescott.” He had shaggy hair and wore a frayed flannel that it was too hot for, but his distinctive feature were his deep set eyes, dark and drowsy. 
She panted distastefully, fully aware she was being improper. 
“What’s it to you?”
He chuckled.
“You’re out pretty late,” he remarked, and it made her blood boil. Entitled prick. 
“You stopping through?” Scotty raised an eyebrow.
“On my way to Tallahassee,” he confirmed after another drag. 
“Well, don’t let me stop you,” she said, with mock-sweetness.  
“Your mother said you’re a spitfire.”
“She’s dying, you know.” She said it to scare him; no one wants to realize they fucked a dying woman. He shrugged.
“We’re all dying, aren’t we?” He looked unaffected, and she scowled at not being taken seriously. Screw him, she decided. She had a miracle to look for. She shot him one last nasty look and yanked open the trailer door. 
There were little tinkering noises coming from the bathroom, and then a retching that broke Scotty’s heart. The ache in her chest sharpened her resolve, and she went to the top drawer in the little kitchenette, where they kept odds and ends, and rifled through bills, spare keys, lighters before she scrabbled against what she was looking for.
She pocketed it, and headed for the swamp. 
She wove her way through the mangroves with practiced ease, slotting her body through the grass and reeds. Her sneakers grew damp, but she didn’t care. The terrain got marshier as she went, and the light began to all but fade out. Fear pricked her a little bit, sizzling on her skin as she went, deeper and deeper until she was knee deep in murky water. There were gators, sure. But there were also cottonmouths, copperheads, asian swamp eels and rumours of rogue pythons. Anything poisonous and unwanted seemed to make Conjunction their home. 
She was waist length when she finally decided to stop. It was fully dark and without the sloshing there were only the bats, clicking sweetly as they felt their way around. 
Scotty rolled up her left sleeve, her forearm effervescent against the marshy water. She figured that side of her was already marred. In her right hand, she fumbled with the Swiss Army her mother used as a can opener, resorting to pulling out the blade with the help of her teeth. 
“Please,” she whispered, into the stillness. “I’ll do anything. Just don’t let her die.”
She grit her teeth and sliced down her palm, pressing hard to compensate for the dullness. Her fingers spasmed in protest and she bit her lip to hold in a yelp.
The bats made their short, sharp sounds, and Scotty closed her fist, letting the blood drip into the swamp water. It felt like dark magic, and she shivered, suddenly aware of the ringing in her ears and the throbbing of her hand.
She felt ancient and terrible then, too. 


****






































                                                
Avila Beach Pier
                                                
Listless pillars
stagger under the weight
of a thousand bodies
walking a hundred weathered planks, 
alongside gangs of mangled gulls,
each balanced on a single crooked leg - 
weary sentries with jaded eyes.
                                                
Cancerous tar fills the cracks 
beneath the pier,
devouring decayed wood 
from the inside out.
In the heat it softens, 
snaking into the sand 
beneath my bare feet 
as I walk below.
                                                
When I’m long past that sprawling figure, 
the lanky posts and mismatched planks 
seem but a skeletal carcass
that emerged halfway from the sea 
before gasping its final breath -                                                
and in this expanse of rays unbroken
by paneled shade,
I find a withered​ piece of tar
that has been clinging to​ the bottom of my foot, 
collecting grains of sand. 


Liquidity
8:35 AM
 
A touch on the shoulder, like
good water pressure pushing me downF
into gelatin ground. Corpuscles and corpuscles
and the little bean in the back of my throat,
glowing: a hot snake rippling through my spine
to the loosened ground and I
sink. A touch on the shoulder, the back
of the neck, the back, the small of the back,
the thigh, the bend of the knee, the feet
and toes and ground. I drop like water
droplets, that bodily lack, that holy lack, liquified.
































red anemone
 
all
      this is how burning feels when your skin
peels off in sheaths of red with white underneath blue
             are
                        you america can you see Oh! i say
i haven’t been home since 1997 since i walked on
two feet since abba said No and ima said Please
far from home the things you hold onto don’t dare
hold on to you i’m baptized raw pink rank and
full of venom
                        refugeed
                                      and this red anemone
you picked and laid bare on a plate for me to bury
inside of my body like i could create a life here
is too bitter to eat Oh! and all i think is when and
                                       again
                                                 praying with the burnt
flesh of our bodies we waited wading through the oven
of war only to arrive with mouths full of moths
                                                                 here


                My grandma’s skin is brown and warm as she leans towards me, bread on her breathe and in her teeth, and tells me the secret to a happy life is four brown eggs cracked over a cast iron skillet. But that’s not all, that’s not all, that’s not all. Four brown eggs, she whispers warm in my ear with a rough hand on my cheek, and a hot chile pepper! She yells each ingredient like a revelation. Olive oil! Onion! Bell pepper! Garlic! Tomatoes! Cumin! Paprika! Salt! Pepper!
                Short and tired and broad she whirls around the kitchen with confidence like she’s built it with her own hands. My kitchen, always and with confidence, This is my kitchen and you’ll chop those tomatoes fine and toss them into a skillet to simmer uncovered for ten minutes - not nine, eight, seven, six.  My grandparents - Menachem and Leah - built this house themselves after they moved to Israel from North Africa during World War II. My Safta Leah teaches me to pronounce Shakshoukah so I can hear Tunis in each syllable. Shak-shoo-kah. Shakshoukah. Not Chak-choo-chah. A revelation. Kaparah aleich, she pats my cheeks with two hands and they sizzle under her touch. My Safta is sweaty and tired but flies about the kitchen like a trapeze artist from one end to the other. My Safta knows that she built this home with her own hands and she knows that the best breakfast in the whole wide world is shakshoukah ve lechem maleh. Eggs and toast with each additional ingredient a revelation in its own right:
Shemen zait ba machvat kodem. First, heat the oil in the skillet. Tosifi et ha pilpel ve ha batsal ve ha shoom. Add the onion and the peppers and the garlic. Tevashli. Cook for five minutes until soft. Achsav, agvania ve tavlinim. Add chopped tomatoes and spices and stir to combine. Tevashli ad she en maim. Let simmer until all liquid has evaporated. Tosifi beytsim. The secret to a happy life, she says, is four brown eggs cracked over a cast iron skillet. Titni la shevet. Let the eggs and tomatoes sit covered for five minutes. Tochli im lechem. Eat with toast.
I eat heartily of a breakfast I made with my Safta, though my hands are pale and less worn, less deserving, and I cannot pour the entirety of Tunisia, of Carthage, into a single meal like she can, in a kitchen that she built with her own hands. This short, broad, tired woman with lines on her face like a map. We eat in silence because there is nothing we need to say, because we are starving and grateful. Life is so simple, she says before we eat. Chaim sheli, chaim sheli. My life, my life. She points to me and to the food in front of us. I am her life and this food is her life. Past and future. And in the present, there are moments like this.






































this bed I have made but will never sleep in




I. 


I sipped wine mixed with cider from
a green-tinted glass I poured in the kitchen.
I kept leaving my phone on top of the fridge
and wanted to watch you again from the counter:
your steady hands, with which I never let you touch me
because they would lend me goosebumps
I mistook for coldness, much like
I mistook the low hum in my chest
for the sound of the air conditioner
when it defibrillated in.


II. 


He answered, you are the worst person in this room.
The wine reddened his mouth like the stain 
on my lap and his teeth made sharp little needle eyes 
threaded with strings he pricked through my lungs.
My hands unraveled the knots in my scarf
and transferred them to my hair when I stood
in his kitchen and knew I would never be the best 
and without knowing decided 
I will try my hardest 
to be the worst anyone has ever seen
or has ever had strung to their eyeteeth—
I will fold my knees and bring someone here
and let them stand where they can perceive
every button hole I leave.


III.


I don’t know what it is to love because
I have never run my fingers down someone’s 
hip except once, in the sweating dark 
with someone I did not know and have not since.


IV. 


A boy walked in. You are beautiful, 
he said, and clasped my hand. I wish I had not held on: 
but it is far easier to shear these strings myself 
than to hand you the scissors of my collapse. I must have
asked him a question because I found an empty answer 
in his lips, and a better one in the solidarity of the kitchen
wall at my back and the small hooks it lent cut strings.


V. 


I burnt my tongue on the breakfast I made 
for myself the next morning. After, I casually dropped
eggs to the floor as if they were hearts:
china thin and white and speckled with a lack of imperfection.
My toast was as dry as the tongue I lie with
alone again in the bed I have made but will never sleep in
where I twisted my neck while thinking of breakfast
and the empty seat across from me where you sat.
You said you hated vegetarians. 
I claimed you would not suit my palate. 


VI. 


The kitchen is white and chrome and clean
and gleams with citrus and salt. Lemon and iodine,
not at all salt tears, not from the cut onion
on the blue plastic board I scrubbed.
My tears, or maybe yours. I never heard.
I said too much too fast to listen. The sink runs and the steam
spreads on the mirror until it drips. Wet skin,
damp feet, and your smile, but it’s thin
and cold, like goosebumps you will now never touch me with,
like the way your ragged hair curls on your face
in the same way you tucked yourself against me,
every line of you soaked through, coiled tight
in ropey strands, on the ground in the sickly 
yellow wash of the parking garage 
I could not scrub clean with 
all of my citrus and salt.
________________


early fall exists: aftertaste for Ingen Christensen


If cannibalism were more prevalent
my body would taste of nostalgia


but so few are digesting me anymore,
so the world will never know nor will I.


The future is real like the air you breathe
and if you choose disbelief, know that


June nights exist in the North for a short
period when the sun never really sets


and aging seems to stop. When it comes 
time for us to turn on the lights I see


I’ve aged ten years and there’s still 
saltwater stuck in my mouth. 


























before the fire department comes
A piece of your dressing gown
Tore, seams distressed
Popping they all go at once


Call the doctor
the dress won’t sew itself
Before the fire department comes
 
I’ll take up arms
Kick the clock down the stairs
Purchase time until the magic is done:
 
Like a spider web vanishes
your silk
red gown
surrenders
 
Wear mine
In the mean time if you’re
Hungry in the fridge are cold plums
 
Until then
I’ll drown my book
And break my staff
 
If I am drunk on your body it’s because
In the distance there are sirens
Closing in on the fun.
 
“A Prayer to the Porcelain God”


I beseech you, my god
and you, unmoving, unmoved, gleam above me
forever unresponsive, but eternally receptive
I beg to pour my soul out
to be purified
to start anew
for I must lose myself to find myself
grant me rebirth, my god
I am not this sin of my flesh
and I implore you to help me elevate myself
from that which corrupts my being—
take away from me this day my daily bread
and lead me not into temptation.
I perform my rites of worship:
genuflection and introspection
I feel my faith rise up
a burning love for perfection
bless me, my god, for I have sinned
it’s been 23 hours since my last regression 
please save me from myself


































Untitled


Nervous teeth drag the color off your lips
As we stand in the snow 
In the winter’s early darkness.
To the yellow windows across the street 
We must make a ghostly scene,
Two figures idling 
On the sidewalk by the church.
There’s a prayer in your eyes but it dies 
Before your stare
Ever lands on the statue of Mary,
On the aging stone hands once clasped in faith
Now crumbling after years of weather.
It is November and everything is breaking:
The thin layer of ice beneath our feet
Splits into softer powder underneath,
Our voices crack, our hands
Shake in the pockets of winter jackets,
The leaves now nothing but
Sickly brown clinging
To wiry skeletal frames until
What’s left of the body lets go,
Fragile and fluttering into the chill.