Chaos Theory


The universe was yawning.
One shift grew an endless gap,
like points X and Y diverging,
chaos born from our mishap.


One shift grew an endless gap.
We watched a hurricane of butterflies—
Chaos, born from our mishap.
They swirled, and took to the skies.


We birthed a hurricane of butterflies,        
a peculiar and prismatic aberration.
They swirled. They took over the skies
until correlation became causation.


Triangulate our prismatic aberration
to calculate the mass of a massive waste.
Now correlation becomes causation.
Density—or destiny—is braced.


Calculate the mass of a massive waste.
With points X and Y diverging
destiny—or density—is braced.
Elsewhere, the universe is yawning.










The Sky Between Us


Strings released, we 
drifted—sometimes 
up. My thoughts charted 
the course of how to live like 
the last plastic balloons. High 


and sipping on ozone, 
the dreams between my ears 
popped. I almost missed 
the moment my skin cells 
grew titanium plates.


The runway of the world 
opened wide once I
moved in rocketing bursts. I’m
so dizzy exploring 
the sky between us


because these eruption thoughts 
spend like fuel. The tang 
reminds me spaceships 
don’t look down, missing 
all the air they used to breathe.












Water Works: Lessons from Waitressing 


My boss said I was all set 
to be a writer 
because I am just so goddamn 
emotional. And I thought, 
Fuck. Not another man 
who knows he knows the flavor 
of my thoughts.


He said: Learn to have an arrogance
about yourself. But arrogant girls 
are just bitches 
and all bitches get 
are table scraps. So after I cried 
in a backroom bathroom 
I went back to hand washing
dishes. He asked if I was fine 
and I said I was fine even though 
I wanted to tell him he needed
to install a dishwasher. 


He said: Let’s see who makes more 
tips tonight—guys
or girls. And I realized 
everyone was ready
to either chew 
me out or spit me out. 


He said: To be a writer, first 
you’ll need to get lost. So, 
that night, after
a waiter shattered another 
Sabayon fishbowl, I watched
eighty dollars swirling 
like a pipe dream. My skull
went with it.


I said: Where is my check. When
will you have it. I hounded him 
for weeks. Then, 
when he handed me regurgitated 
ATM bills, I didn’t 
pretend a thing. I was too busy
drinking down every dime.
To the last drop.






























Gale

Look at me! 
shouts the wind
indignant at my absent air.

For an hour,
that petulant boy
has disturbed my sitting, my reading:

flipping my pages,
flapping my coat,
whipping the heat from my hands.

I press the book down, resolute,
ignore the waves he paints across 
the roiling water, his rhyme in the leaves.

Persistent, he blows 
square in my face, he slaps my cheek,
tears up my eyes, shrieks right into my frosted ears—

Look at me! 
What book in this world 
could be so important?




































I never wondered why


He walked slow, with heavy steps
And swaying movements.
His hands always dry and scarred, digging into the inside of his palm.
He moved with stiff, but messy motions
That made the keys tied to his belt loop ring as they hit against each other.
He stirred the dirt beneath his feet.
The dirt stuck in the creases of the bottom of his broken shoes;
The rubber ripped off the leather almost completely.
His one shoelace on his right shoe was always frayed.
He always had dark skin by his swollen eyes,
Swollen like he'd been crying,
Like he slept with heavy stones blocking the light from his eyes.
He smelled of stale liquor.
Liquor and old, cigarette smoke that never faded away.
I could've sworn he'd bathed in it every day.
But never did I ask him why,
Never did I even have the thought to.
Not until I saw him that one morning
Standing in the field outside my home room window.
He just fell back like he thought the wind would catch him.
His eyes caught mine for an instant as he flew towards the ground,
His hair lifted from the perspiring skin it clung to.
His lips parted like he was in shock,
But he in no way regretted what he'd done.
I was the only one who saw, but yet I didn't say a word.
I couldn't.
I just looked down at my pale, shaking hands,
With my nails deep in my skin,
Right at the moment before I heard the sickening, muted thud
Of his head cracking on stone.
I kept hearing it in my head, I still do.
His fallen hand, just in sight above the sill of the window,
Turned cold.
I saw his hand turn cold and blue and harden like plaster on wood
And I felt the need to grab it and shake it back to life.
But I knew it wouldn't help.
He remains still and I remain quiet.










Avian Aversion 


A burnt orange breasted, almost charred 
feathered foe 
with inky black plumes jutting out of skull
head and hind 
presents a looming essence.  
Head cocked, eyes peer with sunken adjustment, 
teetering on his craggy perch—
hackles raise, jagged beak and jaw unhinge to expel
a mucus-coagulating screech
     pumps molten horror. 


































































A Mother’s Love


 Ginny lit another cigarette, “This is your goddamn fault”, she said with one hand on the wheel. Fallen ash coated her pink bathrobe. Ray stared out the window. His wife’s words poured over him inserting themselves in to every wrinkle and fold of skin. He did not answer. She let out a deep exhale that went long after all the smoke was gone from her lungs. The screeching cries of their daughter were coming from the bed of the truck. Each new shriek slithered up the back of Ginny’s spine before the piercing sound was suddenly unleashed in her ears. She stared ahead at the vast desolation. Every once and a while their daughter would slam into the side of the bed, sending a heavy reverberating thud to the bench seat in the front. Nothing but barren darkness existed on either side of the road, everything swallowed into it, except for the fluorescently over-lit gas station they just passed.
        As they came in to town, they drove along the single lane road that ran through the center. Every establishment had large plate glass windows that were backed by a few dimmed lightbulbs. They lived only a few miles away from the center, and were glad for this to all be over soon. Ginny winced at the thought of having someone they knew see them driving around with their daughter screaming and bouncing around in the back of the truck. The town was small enough that word got around quick. For those who saw whatever incident was the topic, they could technically assert that they were an eyewitness, then whatever exaggerated lies they spewed were accepted eagerly, without question.
“I don’t know what to do with her anymore”, Ginny said, “I can’t keep going through this with her”. By the time they reached their house the screams had stopped. Next to their daughter’s head was a pile of vomit. Ray picked her up and hoisted her over his shoulder, brought her into the house and laid her down on the couch. Ginny stood in the kitchen and stared at the kettle that was heating up.


A week before this Ginny and Ray had been in the in the principal’s office of their daughter’s high school. She had been skipping school, which was the reason that they had been called in. But in reality, there was a whole litany of offences that Callie was committing on a regular basis. Smoking, swearing at teachers, failing classes. Ginny was horrified as she ran her eyes down the list. “You see Mr. and Mrs. Hadson we are naturally very concerned about Callie’s recent behavior” Mr. Greymond, the principal, said. “It was only very recently that she was in the honors society and a part of the cheerleading squad”.
Ginny looked at Ray, he had that slight frown look on his face that he always had. His eyes held that same glossy blank stare that did not offer any picture into his thoughts. Ginny felt herself becoming consumed by hate. It started in her stomach and steadily rose. 
        As Mr. Greymond went on, Ginny’s mind wandered. She ran her tongue over her stained and crooked teeth, an unconscious habit denoting her unease. She looked at the principal. He was a giant, corpulent, whale of a man. The fat under his chin dangled and followed the movements of his jaw going up and down, setting it in perpetual motion. The high cheek bones and low overhanging brow set an odd contrast that was thrown off ever further by his chubby puffed cheeks. He had a high voice that was unexpected for someone his size. It was hard to believe that he was someone of authority. 
“So, what are we going to do?” 
 “Well”, said Mr. Greymond, “You see, Callie is really nothing new. We have kids who act out like this all the time and its just teenage angst. But what has us concerned here is how fast it happened in Callie, she was perfectly fine and then overnight she quit the cheerleading squad and stopped caring about her academic career.”
A long silence lingered in the air. Mr. Greymond leaned forward in his chair and extended his clasped hands towards them, “Mr. and Mrs. Hadson, I am going to ask you a bit of a personal question”. He peered at them over the tops of his glasses, “Did something happen at home?” 


Ginny was steeping her tea as Ray came in and grabbed a Budweiser from the fridge. He sat down across from her. Ginny took out a cigarette and started to light it, “I’m gonna smoke in here”, she said, “I’ve been through enough tonight”. Ray took a sip of his beer, nodded and said nothing. 
“You know why are you such a goddamn pushover, huh”, said Ginny, “This whole thing wouldn’t have happened tonight if when she woke up tomorrow, she knew she couldn’t play daddy’s little girl, feed you all that bullshit and everything would be fine”. 
“Ginny, It’s-”
“No, whatever you are about to say I don’t care. I’ve heard it all before”. 
Ginny put out her cigarette out on the plate in the middle of the table. Ray gazed at her. Her body was facing his, but her head was positioned down and to the right. She could not meet his eyes. Finally, Ray relented and sighed, “I’ll see you in the mornin.”, his voice deep and sonorous with a slight lisp. As he got up and turned, Ginny turned her look towards him. She stared intensely at his blue and white plaid flannel, becoming lost in the endless pattern. He wasn’t a short man, but Ginny was taller than him. She was reminded of this as she watched him walk away. Her eyes turned to his beat-up hat he had left on the table. It was saturated in a chemically disintegrating mix of oil, sweat and dirt. The letters F-O-R-D were about 5 levels removed from their original deep-maroon state, as was the rest of the hat. She heard Ray click on the television and knew that he was sitting in the same chair he always sat in, drinking the same beer he always drank. The beer was held in his left hand and propped up on the arm cushion, the right hand held the TV remote and was similarly angled. The chair was next to the couch. 
        She thought back to when she first married Ray. They were in the same high school class and had only marginally known each other, he did not even graduate. But in a small town, it was enough for him to propose. Yet to those who knew her, knew she would say no. She had plans, big plans. She wanted to move far away. It wasn’t that she held a grudge against the town, more so than it was Ginny herself. She was like a caged animal whose only solace rested in the brief and tiny hope that one day she might be able to roam the plains with complete freedom. The kind of freedom that was inexplicably instinctual, passed through the generations. 
        After high school, after she said no to Ray, Ginny got that chance at freedom. In a graduating class of 47, nine went on to college, Ginny among the few. The State University was her chance, her ticket to life she had so yearned. For a small-town girl, it was not easy to assimilate into a place that held the campus type of life. Most of her classmates were from exotic places like California, Oregon, Massachusetts, and she had even met a European. She was always aware she didn’t belong. They laughed at her when she said that she had never been to the ocean. They made fun of the way the she spoke and pronounced words like pencil as, pin-cell. Even her professors made her cry, when they ridiculed her for wasting their time with questions that should have been answered in high school. 
She learned through soul crushing experience that it was a cruel world, that rendered no mercy. She had broken out of her cocoon too early, where her wings, not quite strong enough to give flight, were forever damaged. This was a world unto which she could not carry on, the difference was too stark. She became increasingly more conscious that a place like this, was not for a girl like her. Shortly after she returned home and married Ray. 


        Ginny thought about the events that had occurred that night. The ignominious phone call from her daughter’s drunken friend telling her she needed to pick up her daughter. She thought of the questioning stares she got as she walked into the house party to retrieve her daughter, only to find her naked, running around the basement. The worst, was the morbid scene of trying to load Callie in the truck. She was on serious drugs. The movements her body was making were too unnatural and random. As if a sudden electrical shock was sent to specific limb and she was reflexively trying to shake out the feeling, except these currents were running through her all at once. Finally, Ray had managed to wrangle her into the bed of the truck. As they drove away Ginny saw in the rear-view mirror the shadows of an accumulated crowd gathered around each of the windows of the house. She shuddered. Why? Why is she doing this? 


The next morning Ginny and Ray pulled out of the driveway before sunup and were on their way to the furniture store, where Ginny worked. There wasn’t much in Acreston. The town only had population of 5,000 and besides the quaint cluster of buildings in the center of town that marked the usual necessities of a townhall and police station, it was rural America picturesque. Farm country, rustbelt, flyover states, there was a whole bunch terms to which people who weren’t from here used to describe the area where they lived. Ginny knew it simply as home. 
        As they drove, she looked at the sun rising out of the distant fields. The pinks, reds, and yellow being omitted stood in sharp contrast the heavy indigo of the night sky. Steadily, the rising light scoured and illuminated the flat pastures that it arose out of. And when they passed a house, a black silhouetted outline appeared floating on the horizon. The golden hue poured through every crevasse and every window. The smoke coming from each chimney, carved out a tight but fluid cloud that signaled although it was early, the inhabitants were already well into their days by now. Such is life out here.  
“You sleep any?”, Ray asked.
“Hardly, how can I after last night? I mean Jesus, Ray, what do you think she was on? I have never heard a human being make some of the noises she was making” 
“I know”
“What are you gonna do?”
“I’m gonna have a talk with her when I get home”, Ray said.
“A talk? It better be more than just a talk, she should never be able to step foot outside again after what she put us through-what she’s been putting us through. She knows that she can get away with this, she always does. I…I...”
“…I just don’t want to lose her”, she added in soft whimper.
“I know, Ginny. I know”.
        The furniture store was three towns overs, in Woodersville. For the surrounding towns, it was the only place where they had a connection to the rest of the world. It was not a city by any means, but it was the closest thing they had to one out here. It had its farmland and open pastures, but it also had a Denny’s and a strip mall. It was an event to come out here, it was where those who arose each day and put in a hard day’s work could come to spend what little money they had managed to put aside and buy something they didn’t exactly need, but it was something that brought pride. A minor but valued reflection of the hard-working life they lived.
Ginny loathed everything about the furniture store. It looked like a large open warehouse that someone decided to fill with a bunch of couches and recliners. It held the careless anonymity of consumerism that constituted most brand name retailers of the day. Everything was uniformed through a set of directions and rules dictated from the corporate headquarters. At the faintest whiff of an infraction, her manager Danny was always running around with his obnoxious binder searching for the article telling him how to proceed. Danny was a younger man who had too much enthusiasm than was required for the job he currently held. He was thin, medium height, and cardstock white. His light brown hair came down and covered his forehead but was swept aside as soon as it reached the top of his brow. There was a perpetual smile he carried that had a superficial air about it due to its constancy. Beyond the white of his smile and skin, his face was lit up by acne, creating a slightly deeper pinkish total complexion than the rest of his body. This deeper hue accentuated the contrast of his unblinking bright, electric blue eyes that were bulging from his glasses. This was the man, kid really, to whom she was subordinate. 
        On her smoke break, Ginny looked across the parking lot at the cars aligned in rows. The weather was comfortable. The blue sky and fluffed clouds looked as if they were freshly painted in bright acrylic paints. The sun basked the scene in a golden hue, radiating its warmth and light combined perfectly in a single ray. The muffled conversations of people coming and going, the low-pitched hum of cars accelerating slowly through the parking lot, the electric swoosh of the automated doors opening as people approached. All this noise accumulated was constant and loud enough to crowd her mind and drown out the screaming of her thoughts. Ginny felt a fleeting desire to stay there, in that very moment, forever. 
        She remembered when Callie was born and thought about the absurd amount of joy that could be found in something that didn’t do anything. A newborn just takes. It didn’t make them richer, it didn’t help clean the dishes, vacuum the bedroom, or fold the laundry. But a mother’s love transcends all this, it is not even a fleeting glimmer of a thought. The midnight feedings, diaper changes, bodily fluids, this was met with constant fulfillment. It seemed as if the more repulsive and demanding the task needing to be done, the more earnestness and willingness she had to do it. Callie brought something into her life she hadn’t experienced since she was young.
        As Callie got older, that joy had cemented itself inside of Ginny. But it was different than it had previously been. It wasn’t as bursting, as urgent. It was unsettling to a degree, she slowly saw her whole purpose of being slipping away from her. She tried to double down and bring back that same light she had once had, but it was never as bright as it was. Her life’s direction was suddenly without course. As if she had fulfilled her duties in life and now was not needed, she was resigned to the holding pen with the other matured cattle, waiting for the slaughter. She didn’t know who or what she was anymore.
        Her favorite memories of Callie were when it was just the two of them. Ray worked first shift then, so she would make dinner for when he got home and then the three of them would sit around the table and eat. The really special moments were late afternoon, right after Callie woke up from her nap. She would sit in her high chair while Ginny cooked and they would play little games. Her favorite was the time when she had arranged the potatoes on the table in front of Callie and was trying to get her to say potato. She was repeated it over and over, PO-TA-TOE. Callie tried and tried to formulate the words but couldn’t get the phonetics just right. Finally, she slapped her hand down in the middle of the table and yelled, “Toe-Toes”. Ever since, Ginny would tell this story every time they ate potatoes and every time, she laughed liked she did the first time. It was not the birthdays nor the first days of school, that she looked back on. It was the toe-toe moments that she would always remember most. The fewer and fewer they got, the tighter she held them. 
But now Callie was getting older and that meant she was becoming less dependent on them. She was home less, in her room more, and began to get her own ideas of how things should be. There was the day when she came home from school and was helping her mother fold laundry,
“You went to college”, she said to her mother.
“Why?”, Ginny asked
“You never told me why you left”
Ginny was handling one of Ray’s flannel shirts. It was well worn, the stitching loose around the seams. She folded it into a neat square and unfolded it. Then refolded it and pressed down along the creases, “It was too expensive for my parents to afford at the time. Pa wasn’t working and needed the extra help around the house”
 “Mrs. Gibbons gave us a presentation at school”, Callie said handing her mother a brochure, “They have scholarships for people like us”
Ginny stared at the college brochure Callie handed her. It looked almost exactly the same as she remembered. 
“Me and Trish were talking about going to visit the state university in a couple of weeks”
Ginny sat there trying to process all of this information.
 Callie got up and went to the kitchen. Ginny remembered back to the same conversation she had with her own parents. She knew exactly how Callie was feeling. But yet the hopes and dreams of one did not reconfigure the world to allow for those aspirations to happen. Things are how they are, and the sooner that she gets around to accepting this, the sooner she realizes a place like that, is not for a girl like her. Callie resumed her seat on the couch next to Ginny,
“I don’t think you understand what it’s like out there”
 “I’m going”, Callie said, “If I don’t do this, I’m never gonna get out of here”
“Listen to me right now, this is the hard truth and you better start accepting it. They don’t want you there, get it? Your just some stupid hick girl that’s there for them to laugh at and make fun of.  You have a good life here, I don’t want to see you ruin it”
“Mom, it’s different now then it was”
“It’s for your own good. Now that’s the last I’m gonna hear of it”
Ginny continued on folding, Callie leaned back into the couch in a sulking manner.
“I’m going to apply anyway”
“If you apply, then that’s the last you will ever see of your father and me”
Callie got up and stormed out of the room, and yelled over her shoulder, “I’m stuck in this fucking town”
“That’s right”


That night at the dinner table, Ginny sat across from Ray just as she had the previous night. Ray had stayed home from work that day to look after Callie. Ginny had only gotten home an hour ago and had spent her time making dinner. She sat across from Ray in silence. They had been together long enough that there wasn’t too much that had gone unsaid. But yet in that margin of unsaid things, there was too much to say. Silence was the norm and silence pervaded. 
“Callie isn’t hungry?”, she asked.
“No, I made her some food earlier. She needs to rest”
Ginny stared at the brown lump of meatloaf on her plate. The edges were burned so she took her fork and broke down the shape it was in. Then she stirred it all around.
“Did you to talk to her?”
“Yes”
“Well…”
“She feels embarrassed about last night. She didn’t mean to do that”
Ginny stared at Ray, waiting for him to explain further. 
“But why? Why is she doing all of this” she asked. 
“I don’t know, to be honest I don’t think she does either”
A scowl erupted on Ginny’s face. She looked off the side, her eyes shifting back and forth. “Did you ask her this?”
“No”
“God-damn it Ray, I told you to be stern”
“That ain’t gonna fix this. Only make it worse”
“Yeah? What do you suppose-”
Callie entered the kitchen, inserting a silence into the middle of their conversation. She walked to the pantry and kept her back turned to the middle of her room. She rummaged through the cabinets. Both parents watched their daughter try to be invisible. 
“What do you to have to say for yourself?” Ginny said. 
Callie had a look of shame and guilt that radiated from her fixed stare down at the floor, like an old dog with his tail between his legs.
“You apologize to me right now. You hear-”
“Not now, Ginny” Ray said.
“Yes now”, She said turning to her daughter, “It’s all over Callie, you hear me? Done. All that shit you’ve been pulling at school. It’s about time you pay for actions”
Callie stood there stunned, not ready for this onslaught. She looked to Ray for help. 
His eyes held on the plate in front of him.
“He’s not gonna help you now. No one can. You’re on your own”.
Callie stared back at Ginny, a mystifying defiance now hardened in Callie’s eyes. Ginny saw this wash over her, she knew what was happening because she too had the same baffling quality of obstinacy in the most unfortunate situations. 
“Apologize”, Ginny demanded, “right now”. 
 “No”
“What?”, Ginny said, getting up and moving over towards Callie. “Apologize to me”.
“Fuck you”
Ginny thrust her hand out to Callie’s face. The web between her thumb and forefinger was cupped perfectly under Callie’s lips. She had a tight grasp on her face, pushing and squeezing up all the fat in her cheeks to above where her fingers were. This pushed the edges of her lips together and crinkled them. She pulled Callie’s face down level with hers.
“I’m sick of this. Why can’t you be happy here? Do you know how hard me and your father work? I’ve-we’ve-made life so simple for you but you don’t appreciate any of this”.
The defiance in Callie now dripped down from her eyes. Taking a convoluted path between the scrunched-up indents of skin and ultimately landing at the base of Ginny’s finger. Ginny pulled her hand away, and wiped it on her pants. The emotions then rushed out from Callie with force.
Ginny stared at Callie who had her head in her hands. 
“Apologize to me right now”, she said. 
“Stop it”, Callie burst out through a veil of hair, mucus, and tears.
In one quick and fluid motion Ginny brought her hand up and across her face. She did it again. And again. Harder and harder.
“Ginny knock that off-” Ray said, starting get up.
“Sit down Ray” she said, turning around and pointing back at the seat. She turned back to Callie who was now at her feet, curled up in a fetal ball.
Ginny stood there towering over her daughter for several minutes. She stared down at the pitiful state her child was in and felt a rising surge of guilt. It was there, present in the subconscious, but this was overtaken by anger. The anger consumed everything in its path, like a wildfire gaining strength the farther it spreads. The emotion in Callie put her into a docile state.  The shaking in Ginny’s hands stopped, her breathing slowed, she took a deep breath and stiffened her posture. Then she took her foot and with it slowly moved her daughter to her back so that she lay there belly up, with her arms at her side. Then she slightly raised the bottom her shoe and placed it on Callie’s right cheek.
“Just stay”, she said with a croak in her voice, “stay right here”. 
She stepped harder onto her face and stayed like this. Callie’s screams for her father fell deaf. 


Ginny stepped back from her daughter, who had reddened groves from the bottom of her shoe imprinted upon her face. She walked over to the mantle where she kept her cigarettes and slid one from the pack. She turned to face Ray at the table in the center of the room. She put the cigarette in her mouth and lit it with her head tilted to the right. Then, she shifted her gaze from the end of the cigarette to Ray. He was sobbing with his head in hands. She took a long inhale and then turned and opened the door. She took one last glance back to Callie who was still lying on the floor. 
 Toe-toes, she thought, never again. 
With that, she passed the threshold and walked out into the night. 






















“On a Walk to Baseball Practice”


TJ and I are out, as usual.
we fear danger,
we fear being mistaken as Danger: we are
constantly cautious so as not to startle
The Cautious, our looks pull
Their Trigger.
We simply are here, trying,
wanting so deeply 
 to be Understood,


just this one time.


I’d like not to be behind
before the race even begins, before
The Official’s gun can even
jolt the Spectators with a
bang and some smoke
in the air, blotching color 
where they expect to see none
(Well, until it is invisible,
again, forgettable, and not for


just this one time.)


Tonight, our spectators 
are simply the Neighbors,
even though they don’t act like
Neighbors as they peer from curtains
in front rooms suspicious of us
because of this uniform we are
born wearing. They wait
for us to prove ourselves Worthy --
but won’t help us to become so,
not realizing that we already are worthy,
simply because 


we are. Though it won’t be  just this one time,


we still try, TJ, because this 
is everyday: it shouldn’t be,
But it always is, and we are always;
we are trying,
officer
Fruit Salad


Stretching sticky-sweet 
mornings soaked in
pineapple sunlight, strawberry silence,
green grass growing days.


In those days we 
napped in our peach pit penthouses, 
wondered where we’d be next year 
(they told us we can be anything)


or we 


wandered the apple orchard
with blueberry stained braces
and cherry pie smiles
 (aren’t we American?)


Until plum twilight, porch lights 
left on led us home to 
crash on cantaloupe couches,
soft seeds promising life.














diego


i should have been named diego; la sangre de españa lurking within me
would have puffed out its chest and proclaimed i was here to revive el siglo
de oro over in the “new world.” i would have been solid, a man of realism
and integrity and oil on canvas, a man who made a piece vital enough it had
become the basis of the theology of painting. royalty’s most prized commodity.


i should have been named diego; there’s a history there that my ancestors would
have liked to have seen swirl in the northern states. he was converso and a native
storyteller wrapped into sprawling murals and coffee colored skin. a diego who
spun simplified figures and bold colors into fables and fairy tales and history.
his calla lilies hang on my wall, purity and faith curled into hands like mine.


when i arrived, silent and smaller than anticipated, unqualified to be the artist,
the myth; rather, i adopt the titular name of una reyna. once upon a time, a diego
strokes a brush down a canvas, looks into the past to the queen that unified spain,
the good catholic, the founder of a modern bureaucracy, the ruler of an empire
that craved gold like hungry swine, a beautiful sea serpent, hungry for human flesh.






























lengua at market basket


goya speaks to me with spanish flow
dialect tumbling down tongues eager
to taste some semblance of hogar
in white places. the woman next to me
scoffs at words she can’t pronounce,
repeats them in a mocking tone while
my eyes trace a boy with a jarritos
guayaba blush painting his cheeks.


native tongues are not welcomed into
suburbia. i pull tostadas from the shelf,
place them next to almond milk, eggos;
the picture of american dreaming.
turning my back on the woman jeering
with lip upturned, i spin myself towards
tanned skin and sangria suit jackets.


her name tag proudly proclaims 15 years,
but her eyes say a few too many so i stay
quiet as she packs pieces of me
into recycled bags that cost 2.99. i let
her place them in the carriage before giving
thanks in our rejected mother tongue.






















details


You told me to fall in love with moments. A six hour phone call. Passing pieces of dried pineapple. Swearing when you pull into a deserted church parking lot. Telling me that dogs are good at loving. Reminding me it’s going to be okay.
        A “hey” and a smile only shadowed by worried eyes, followed by my nod that yes, I’m okay. An exasperated sigh when looking over an assignment nearly impossible to understand. Hands trying to fix a mess of papers. A quick and unexpected hug. A perfectly timed joke that no one but me will laugh at. A hand to hold during scary movies because neither of us like them but someone does and she makes us sit on the loveseat so she can lie down on the couch and make faces at us until we lean into one another with a contented sigh.
        Stuttering out my name. Smiling until my cheeks hurt. Trying to navigate the back roads of a town over. Sitting in a field we don’t know the name of until night falls. Pointing out constellations you can see and I can explain. Talking about how beautiful the lightning is. A common dislike of fireworks when alone. Watching the same TV show from across town. Fun facts. Standing face to face in a downpour when you tell me your parents are thinking about calling it quits for good. Collapsing into each other when we think the world is falling apart. Slurping from the same smoothie like this is Scooby Doo.
        Your inability to remember your lines. Distracting me like it’s second nature. Making the same face when we glance at the latest, greatest, breaking news. Roasting each other while roasting marshmallows. Planning on making a future together. Ignoring the looks someone’s been shooting us all night as we spin memories into tales for a whole new group of friends.
        Calling me a partner in crime. Fingertips running over my knuckles after I’ve come out of a game, covered in softball debris and dirt from behind the plate. The kiss to my cheek on the way home from a movie, our best friend eyeing us in the rearview mirror as she chats away with her sister in the front of the car. Holding my hands to “keep warm” as we trudge through the snow, heading away from responsibilities for weekend shenanigans.
        “The story we can tell our kids one day.”
        A three am phone call about the time you got electrocuted and the fact your brother is on a date but they’re monopolizing the TV in the living room so you’re trapped upstairs with his laptop and a box of Honey Nut Cheerios. Realizing you’ve forgotten to pick your brother up from the airport. Showing up at my house at midnight with McDonalds fries and a Wendy’s frosty and kidnapping me so you don’t have to drive into the city alone.
        Finding little things in common. Distracting me from a bad week. Bad puns. Your smile. Your laugh. The way you’re the worst at mini golf but it’s okay because the fifth time I went you saved me from falling into the fountain. Collapsing into the grass together only to find out hands already winding together. The way you say my name. The way you tell me that I’m your constant. Telling you yeah maybe there’s someone but never having the courage to tell you who.
        And it’s been five years and I loved you and maybe you could have loved me.
But you’re fifteen hundred miles away and we’re locked in a dance with different partners and the girl that once told us we’d collapse into each other just died in a bar three countries away from us.


















































































la Chapelle de Saint-Rémy


I. 
Outside, the stone of the church
presses cold into the palm of my small hand. 
Mom tells me, 


Spirits pull its heat so they might depart 
from these grounds golden with wheat.


II. 
Brides walk the middle isle in white, 
both hands cupped full of red: love
leaks from their hearts,


pulled up and out of chaste chests. Here,
girls offer themselves under the cold stone.  


III. 
The church wears Easter well: 
blue-grey painted face and windows
like eyes. Inside the people


bend on knees to worship a sacrifice
not even the aged stones remember accurately. 


VI.
Still every Sunday I linger at the door,
feeling for the cold - ghosts 
trying to escape. 


Once mother leaves me and I am alone
I will not come to visit her among these lonely stones.  
















On Nostalgia


How’s your memory? Does she still
dance? Waltz through the living
room, turn off all the lights,
pull the photos from the walls &
listen to the glass 
shatter?


You used to lie
on the floor, run your fingers 
through her hair
                     and cry. 
































































a goose and a moose
met a moose and a goose


geese
moose 


































































apartment complex


boxes
stacked like blocks
filled with life
filled with stories


of best friends
and friendships at their end
of lovers turned roommates
and roommates turned lovers
and loners
ambling around


listening
to epik high
blaring from speakers
two floors above
and to arguments
spilling from mouths
three floors down
and to friends catching up
in the room next door


listen to these


boxes
stacked like blocks
brimming with life
on this tuesday night
























































Ozone


I love the way the axel of his wrist
turns the vortex of space with a spoon
between our eyes. This moment is trapped on vinyl,
meditating like a mug on the microwave turntable,
somewhere in the background of our eyesight.
The kitchen light is dark.


My tongue catches me off guard when I tell
him that I love him. The timer shatters, and the light
of the microwave like the nebula in his iris 
disappears across the event horizon.


I’m reminded that I define him by what he isn’t. 
We cannot understand each other with our skewed gaze.
The mug of waning moonlight doesn’t warm my hands
like I hoped it would. He remains outside my atmosphere.


But later, in the fractured bedroom mirror,
he bucks his palm into my chest. I let him pile drive my heart
until it collapses in on its own density and his weight locks into my hip 
and the shrinking space between our lips cuts off the morning sun. 
A moment passes and with new air in my throat, I glance, glacier-nosed
and bite into the clock-time on his neck.


Between us,
in thinning layers,
there is only Ozone.




















































this train will be standing by
to Jonathan Richman


your sound of modern loneliness when it’s cold outside –
I hear it each time we hit Blandford St and slip
underground backwards, the light slides away and it’s
Kenmore and pressing bodies and Hynes and
leaned-back closed-eyed heads bumping against the glass.


It sounds a lot like steel grating steel tracks
a tin voice calling stop then tired stop.
I can feel my skin around my bones and
this tunnel tight around the train.
The dark clinging to the window presses my own face back at me.


There’s no route 128 opening up
no radio on
there are only those nights resurfacing to get stranded somewhere
around Brookline Hills, standing by, counting puffs of breath,
just waiting here in Massachusetts when it’s late at night.
















Bartering:
An International Student Contemplates an English Major




I would give
a dandelion for some wiring
                               neurons attuned to math
a thistledown for a dime
                               dollars for a Gold Pass
a moonbeam for some breakfast
                                I missed due to stress
a ransom for a quiet mind
                                that dwells on dreams less 






Gathering starlight pleased me
                                  You’ll be pleased and hungry
then grew thick the mist
                                  mist of childish fancy
with ticking time.
                                  Who’d pay for immigrant poetry?
Dancing on the edge suited me
                                   Double majoring, perhaps.
till I tread on the Jungle’s confines.
                                   Get real or get out.
                                       




Wherefore am I here?
                                   America don’t need losers.
Perhaps I traded wrong.






What I really need
Is a grassroot for some courage
                                   Or better, a work visa
A flask of berry mead strong.
fury heart, stone heart


release the breath you’ve been holding for the past two years when they ask, 
what is the hardest thing you’ve ever been through?
try to reign in the links spearing through your mind like
fishing rods casting lines of starlight across the lake you’ve almost drowned in 
        twice. 
perhaps you stop upon the time
        when control melted like taffy between your fingertips, when your mother’s lung 
deflated and collapsed—for a brief moment you didn’t know if God was real but you 
prayed nonetheless. or maybe you freeze upon realizing that it could be
your excuses for your shaking hands. for when you shot upright in bed and sweat clung 
to the sheets and you couldn’t convince yourself that you were the image 
of Achilles, glistening with oil and a will to survive a war—until he didn’t. 
do not tell them that you had no Patroclus, you were not dipped into the river Styx. 
you drank those gray waters and grew a Fury for a heart when your lover crept in close and revealed himself to be a 
war. 
and he took everything from you, trained your hell-heart to hate, to hate, and 
        to hate. he tested the bounds of your immortality, cut the flesh of your heart and licked the life from his fingers. at that point, your pain was a live, writhing thing, a bird 
throwing itself against the notches of your ribcage. 
he split a pomegranate between your legs. Persephone screamed when you 
could not. 
and then the war ended, and you were astounded when the pain did not come from
        other hands. but you could still taste the sour bite of the seeds the battle scraped out of you. you did not have the will to fight anymore. 
tear this pain from me. take it away. you begged this as your skin remained
split open. Medusa came, saw herself in you. she called you beautiful. 
        but you were not beautiful. you were a wound. 
you could not stand to be touched, but you were desperate, drunk, lonely, 
and perhaps a bit in love— 
you kissed Medusa, and the rotten strips of your heart smoothed over to a polished 
stone. it wasn’t better—but it was better. 
Medusa, turn me to stone. numb me until
        the nights are silent. and she obliged. 
but then she returned to the legends, a tightly held secret 
tucked beneath your palms. 
love died and there was nothing left. you have a heart of stone and the battle rages on. 
If I was Shot Right Now


they would care more about the Mona Lisa.
French silvers by, blue turns to red 
on the canvas. I look for the lines,
the shift in the air – a man 
there reaches


into his jacket. Hold pressure, fill
the hole with your finger, memories
pour from a sieve into my cupped
hands. Two exit signs in view,
one around Nike of Samothrace, the other
behind a closed door. That man


fumbles for his wallet. Someone tell 
the security guard there’s a bag,
a mis-stare. What news remains 
if not here 


then where? The trick is to know
how to find the buried lines  
in her face. To not be distracted
by her eyes but to follow what happens 
out of frame.  


































Nothing Ever Really Gets Said


between us. A dog yanks
at its leash in my heart. 
You say, “I’m fine” 
in the morning,
at night. The chrysalis 
on the windowsill swallowed
by a cat. Two parrots


caw at each other. You and I 
sit in the same room but


its not the same room. 
I say, “Did I do something?”
In each hand, I hold a brick
pried from a wall. A mirror
reflects your face.


My mouth opens, not to say
wear your glasses please
when driving in the rain but 
to bark 


doggish booms like a hound
pointed at a rabbit who understands
not. Yet enough to know to run.  


































Over the Surface of the Deep


We put up with the heat until the middle of October, and then I decide I have to go north.
The impulse strikes—inspiration, God-breathed in a loud moment, while Bran is locked up in words and oblivious. We’re at a café downtown and it’s so hot the sunscreen mixes with sweat and runs right off my arms. I’m trying to paint but I have no ideas, not in Houston—the world is too noisy—I can’t concentrate. I’m imagining noise pollution with a color like smog and I wonder if I can paint that, but all I have is a grainy silhouette of a dumpster truck and I’ve scrawled the words breath of life across the bottom.
Bran and I have been here almost a year and we thought it would be cooler by now. It’s a fluke heat wave and it feels like August, the month when nothing gets done, when it’s so hot the paint won’t set and we spend our days moving as little as we can manage, just letting this city spin and shout around us.
Bran’s reading something. He keeps wiping his glasses on the inside of his shirt. Sometimes he whispers to himself, putting ideas together out loud, but he’s having trouble concentrating. I reach over and try to draw in the fog on his lenses but he smacks my hand away, and I throw another streak of muddy paint on the canvas and stare at the skyscrapers across the street, trying to think. If faith as small as a mustard seed can move mountains—I frown at these towers and hold my breath and they just stare back at me, all self-satisfied because they’re made of stone, and I let my breath go and decide that my faith is not enough to shake any human-made city.
“I am going to the North Pole,” I declare, the divine prophecy spilling from my lips and catching him across the face. At least, I want it to. More truthfully it just pulls the sweat a little farther down his brow. He raises his eyes.
“Maybe not the North Pole,” I say. “Maybe Alaska. Maybe Iceland.”
“You hate the cold,” he says.
“I’ve never said that,” I say, and he looks at me with an expression that tells me he really does know better this time.
“Let’s not think about the cold, then,” I say, as a trio of motorcycles go by and I have to repeat myself, “think about how blank it is, I want to see empty land” and I have his attention but he still says “Alaska isn’t as blank as you think” because he likes to argue. But I can tell he’s sick of loud cities and maybe it’s time to move on anyway—we’ve never stayed anywhere longer than a year or two, and we’ve seen a lot of the world but never a cold place, where the soil doesn’t turn because it is frozen and all the stories have to do with ice because every creature depends on where it comes from.
So I win Bran over and we move on quickly, as we always do, and by the end of November we’ve landed in Anchorage. It is far from vacant. I’ve never seen a city more out of place, right on the edge of a mountain range.
A friend of Bran’s has a cabin in Skwentna, north and west from Anchorage, where he comes to photograph in the summertime. The only way to get there is by boat or snow machine. The current population is thirty-seven. As we skate over the frozen land I feel like we’re circling backward in time.
Even out here, Bran is right—the land isn’t as blank as I thought it would be, there are trees and a few scattered houses—but we’re still in the middle of nowhere, whatever that means. The trees are small and ragged. It is dusky and snow is falling tenderly, silencing the world, which is made of ice—creaking, shadowy ice.
In the beginning the Spirit of God hovered over the waters and then God went about creation by separating everything—light from dark, water from earth. God (I try not to call God “He”) breathed over the waters, over the land, into the nostrils of humans, and with God’s breath came God’s creative energy—so you’d think humans, made in the image of God, would have been creative enough to think of a genderless pronoun for God other than God. And you’d think living in a world heaving with humans would fuel my own artistic vitality.
I survey the land. It is not quite blank but it is cold, and I have to wonder if God ever breathed here.


Bran and I have been a team a dozen years. We’ve moved west and west together. We’ve lived near mountains and farmland and skyscrapers in all kinds of cities. I told him once that the word “planet” comes from an ancient Greek word that means “wanderer” and he thought about that for the rest of the afternoon.
He’s a photographer and I’m a painter so we’re allowed to move around and see how the land changes. Sometimes I paint the same things Bran photographs and we put them up next to each other and they look impossibly different. I wish I could take pictures as good as Bran’s. He wishes he could paint.
When we go north, I bring a big canvas and a handful of small, cheap ones, because when I am inspired I go through them faster than I keep track of. I paint without thinking. I never could stand an empty canvas.
We wake in the far north, the grave north. There is oatmeal, and there is coffee—the first day—and Bran and I start working and out of nothing we create. We talk the morning into evening. The two of us, at least, have never been able to work in silence. Sometimes—not very often, because Bran’s good at talking—he stops and searches for a word and I throw a few out to him, and he lets them fall to the floor because they’re all wrong. He keeps wondering how we can understand each other when words are so imprecise, or maybe we don’t understand each other at all and we only think we do. I shrug and say whatever the case, it seems to be working.
On the second day, Bran bets I can’t catch a fish big enough to eat so when he heads off to photograph, I find a river and go out fishing. My hands and feet are cold, but Bran’s already been right about a few things this morning so I keep waiting to prove him wrong. Fishing is the opposite of wandering.
I tap my feet and hum a made-up song to myself. I’m looking at the sky and wondering why the sun hasn’t risen above the trees even though it’s one in the afternoon, as though the light hadn’t been totally separated from the dark in this place. I make a note to ask Bran about it when I get back. I think of him out somewhere taking pictures, and I bet he’s talking to himself—God, I can’t wait to see him—and then I feel the line drop. My eyes snap to the river and it meanders back and forth for a minute before I remember to pull it up. The fish puts up a fight and it’s my energy against his for a moment before I have it, flopping there waiting to die like a run-on sentence and I take it home and separate the hell out of it—head from body, flesh from scales.
Bran tells me he’s impressed. He shows me his pictures—of ice netting across leaves, of bear tracks, things nobody else has probably ever seen, and they’re amazing. I go to bed happy and lie awake a few minutes, eyes open, fooling myself into seeing images in the dark. I lift a finger and trace words, earth river God heat Bran and I can see them, hanging there in silver.
In the beginning was the Word; in the beginning God created. Word and world—God spoke the world into being. God set the planet in wandering motion. God made a human (’ādām) from the earth (’ǎdāmâ), and with the human came language and the second Adam was Christ, the Logos, the Word. God created, God created.
I’ve never really understood what they mean when they call Christ “the Word” but I like the idea of redemption by language.
Language must be God-breathed. It baffles me.
I realize I’m still awake. That annoys me. Sleep is regenerative and God knows I always need regenerating. I look over at Bran, sleeping so still and peacefully on his back. I take his hand and his silence breaks and he mumbles something in his sleep about Michelangelo. I move closer to him—he is warm. He rolls over so he’s facing me and his breath plants a little sphere of heat above my collarbone, lulling me to sleep.
Bran wants to go ice fishing. He renewed his license when we stopped in Anchorage. I wonder if he’s feeling competitive but I liked how it felt to catch a fish and feel it alive and mortal in my hands, and I bet Bran would get such a look of amazement on his face, and I can’t miss that. We put on snowsuits and we go for the existential chill.


North is dim. Bran says it’s only this time of year that the sun doesn’t come up over the trees, and in the summer it never sets—an endless jarring daytime. Right now there’s a velvety light over everything, and there’s an intimacy between earth and light that makes me feel as though I shouldn’t be here. We arrive at the nearby lake and step out over the water. 
I see ice, thick like Scripture, blurred like Scripture through the smoke of my breath. I am like a dragon or maybe this is how it looked at the beginning when God breathed light and heat over a frozen world. Bran isn’t having have the comparison. He says the world wasn’t frozen in the beginning because Genesis was written about Mesopotamia, and even this frozen world is full of life and that’s why we are ice fishing anyway.
Sometimes I wish I could read his mind and know his arguments ahead of time. Maybe then I could think of a response that would shut him up. But I know Bran’s words are put together at the same time they fall out of his mouth, not like mine which sit and steam for a moment until I decide they’re ready. And anyway, I like how Bran talks, I like it too much to seriously want to cut him off. He’s still telling me how many types of fish there must be under the ice and which ones he wants to catch. I’ve zoned out. I smile at him and he falls quiet and smiles back.
We wander together over the frozen surface. We pick a hole into the deep icy darkness. It feels wrong, somehow, like we’re breaking and entering. He drills it a little too wide, and it’s an inch or so thinner than he thought, and he tells me to be careful. The water is black and glossy.
He drops a line and we sit back and talk until we almost lose our voices.
We don’t catch any fish. I say maybe there are no fish, maybe it’s empty down there, and Bran keeps waiting.
I ask him if we should head back before it gets late and he says he’s willing to be a little stupid this afternoon if it means he can catch a damn fish. It’s still light out anyway, the same dim, silky light, so we keep at it. Our minds wander.
The sun disappears fast here. It is golden-hour and then darkness is over the surface, with no gradient in between or perhaps I’ve lost track of time—maybe time runs differently in the far-flung north. I was looking at Bran’s face and now I can hardly see it. He’s talking about apple trees. He heard about a guy who was buried next to one, and the tree’s roots spread out and ate his body as it decomposed. To dust we will return. 
I tell him I think the apocalypse will feel like a solar eclipse.
“I guess we’d better go,” he says then, still fishless, and I nod and stand up. I felt safe sitting down in my place but now my weight is shifting and I’m unsteady, I can’t see anything at all, and I can’t remember which way is which or where I was sitting; I take a step and hear a low cracking and I’m in the water, and the beginning of the world is revealed.
It is silent. It is black except for where some causeless light pokes through, and it turns the world a color I don’t have a name for. My mortality flies at me, knives in the water, because cold is sharp, cold is death, cold is silence. 
I can’t breathe but my lungs try anyway—I forget whether they call that a gasp reflex or a choke reflex—and I swallow bitter cold water and there is no separation between myself and the deep. And the deep is empty, it is formless and void, and terrible. A second later I do not know if my eyes are open but I look and I see shapes that are not there—the beast with its seven heads and ten horns, and Leviathan—and I’ve always imagined a world with no people except Bran and here it is, except Bran isn’t here either. It is like an old secret has been revealed to me by mistake; I am not supposed to be seeing this world before humans, before breath, before language.
And there’s a word, a word I can’t understand or remember. It sounds like a breath, it sounds like thunder going backwards, coming from an open grave or a creative Spirit in the deep; it sounds like the end of the world.
I’m in there for a couple seconds probably. My arms are raised over my head and I guess my muscles know what to do because I’ve swept myself back up, and Bran has caught hold of me. My head breaks the surface and the earth reappears, sound returns, and my lungs freeze as though I’m breathing a new kind of oxygen that my body doesn’t recognize.
I’m stronger than Bran and I almost pull him in with me. For a moment I think it’s over and there’s something about that image, both of us frozen in the beginning of time, suspended in a void so empty God could start creation all over again, and maybe we’d speak a new language when God thawed us out. But Bran holds on and I’m out as quickly as I fell in, and my body doesn’t know what to do with itself it’s so cold, and Bran says “Oh Christ” and I say “It’s okay man, I’ll tell you later” and I shrink against the ice.


I am not dead—I have not died. What is the difference? One is a statement of fact, one of anticipation.
The martyrs were burned to death, and I suppose that’s because it’s easier to burn than to freeze. There’s something heroic about fire and brimstone, more than ice and emptiness, but I think it’s as likely that hell is either, or both. Martyr means witness and I think of how ludicrous that is, to die for what you’ve seen and heard.
I’m wrapped in blankets and I guess I’m warm again, but the inside of my chest and my throat feel cold, like they will always be cold, though not in the worst of ways. Bran is beside me reading something. He looks up when I cough and says, “You’re an idiot” and goes back to his book smiling. God, he makes me laugh.
I think about painting what I saw. I know it’s not many people who have seen form in the blankness or heard a whisper through deep water. We understand no other world than the one we have created; I sit here and think, for the better part of an hour, of how I might describe it.
Instead I tell Bran I love him because that’s the best language I have, I think.
He’s left a canvas beside the bed and I reach for it. I am not so averse to a blank canvas but still I take the brush and begin to paint what I see out the window, talking to Bran, painting in time with my breath, because I am human.
































New Orleans Jazz 


I
She throws her tenderness to the carnival of collage. 
Disguised ancient kings and queens hold generous masquerade
Exempt from Catechism.


They pay homage to servants who commit bestiality 
And mantis devouring their last bit of lust 
For another toast. 


She no longer needs to scream like a peacock
But savors the pandemonium 
With a grunting chameleon tongue.


She never knew in New Orleans 
People never wore colorful masks, 
They were only black or white. 


II
The sorrow and grief of her ancestors 
Presaged a tragic artistry beneath 
Her opulent skin.
When they sinned by being born with Black masks, 
They did not howl 
With the soldiers marching under confederate flag. 


Instead, 
They sang the melody of redemption, 
Melting white glaciers with the pool of light. 


Therefore, people say 
Jazz is the only true American music, conceived with 
Violent beating of drums and bitter, tortured trombone. 


III
She wakes from a frosty dream, 
Next to a face weary and jaded 
But unknown to her. 


Old souls numb the last pains of waltzing dust.
February moonlight gently pours down 
And bears her miserable epiphany. 


She hears a distant whippoorwill wailing,
Plucking the string of double bass
With its doleful wings. 


The echo carries her 
To an origin she had long forgotten,
Reverberating in the swing of saxophone.








































Mothers of Pearl 


         One day in January last year, my grandmother and I watched over a jeweler as he sifted through a pool of tiny diamonds and chatted about his family in Egypt. He had poured out a little purse of jewels onto the worktable in his space—no larger than five feet by five feet, beneath a horrifically low ceiling—and was combing through them with tweezers. All these little diamonds were nestled into boxes and pouches in the stifling basement of a skyscraper in Midtown, and I felt like fainting. 


        I wasn’t sure why we couldn’t have gone to a jeweler closer to home—quieter, with taller ceilings—but my grandmother insisted that her mother used to get on a train and trundle along into the city to have her jewelry fixed. The jeweler would just send the ring here anyway, so we may as well do it ourselves. My grandmother and I sipped honey lattes on the morning train ride along the coast with the sun spilling onto the scarlet seats and compared our frustrations with my mother. While I had been at school, my mother had adopted the ring as her own, after taking off her second wedding ring and throwing it in a handmade dish. I came home for Christmas to find a hole just next to the pearl. 


        The whole trip I twisted and examined the ring, holding it up to the morning sun and moving it between different fingers. It fit on my middle finger, just below the knuckle. The ring just barely catches the light, light gold with a round pearl, flanked by two small diamonds that only seem significant when one has vanished.  


        I don’t remember exactly how my grandmother gave me this ring—I think it was sitting on her finger, not quite glittering, but like a centerpiece on her little hand. I told her that it looked lovely, so delicate and elegant, and she twisted it off her right ring finger and folded it into my palm. Don’t tell your grandfather, she said, and chuckled. My grandfather has bought my grandmother a piece of jewelry for every anniversary and important birthday since they had been married—he once tried a birdfeeder, which she loved, but went right back to earrings. They were both teachers and young parents, but he always set just enough money aside. Once, she hooked her finger into the sleeve of my sweater and whispered that she had to start thinning her collection.         
        
        My grandmother’s jewelry collection grew so that my grandfather decided to make her a secret cabinet in their armoire, a panel that opened out, lined with navy floral contact paper and dotted with hooks from which she could hang necklaces. He kept buying her jewelry and expanding their room to accommodate his own gifts to her. Once, my grandmother brought my younger sister and me into their bedroom, perched on the bed, and poured from a purse—almost like the diamond dealer—a dozen or so rings in gauzy pouches. She smiled and pressed her palm to her face almost in embarrassment at her collection. 
        
        My mother looked at the ring on my finger, then on her finger, and told me that her mother had never given her any jewelry. Some cross-stitched art, an oak table from my great-grandparents house, a console piano, a black leather couch, but no jewels. She told me it was not a good idea to bring the ring with me to college, that I would only lose it. My grandmother raised her eyebrows when I told her this; my mother was always losing things. Earrings and credit cards and wallets would be found in the well of the car, beneath the leather couch, at the bottom of her purse. She always demanded to know if we had taken them.
        
        The ring stayed home with my mother, in a small lavender dish in my bedroom. I think my mother used to keep it there—had I taken the train home in the middle of the night and checked the dish, the ring would be right where I had left it. But she slipped it brazenly onto her index finger, brought it along to work, tapped it against the steering wheel, submerged it in soapy water after dinner with the dishes. She and my younger sister went to dinner at my grandparent’s—spaghetti and a little red wine—wearing the ring in front of my grandmother, bringing it back to its first home. I think that was where she lost the diamond. 


        At Christmas, I took the ring from its lavender dish and slipped it onto my middle finger, carried it along the coast to the city, and watched as a diamond was placed gingerly into the empty setting. I still haven’t lost the ring, although there were a few weeks where it had fallen beneath the floorboards, waiting in a heating vent. I have never told my grandmother, but I think she will laugh.   




































Rib


Sometimes, 
as I lie awake at night,
I like to reach inside myself, 
and snap off a rib. 


I could whittle it down into a point:
sharp like a knife, 
ready to carve. 


I could fashion it into another,
born of my side,
cast off into the lonely world. 


I could crush it into dust,
Scattered into the wind,
Like ashes drifting from a pyre.


But will I remember it
when it’s gone?
Will I feel the ache,
the empty cavity, the gruesome hole?


Perhaps I will fill it
Plant flowers to grow.
But what if the vines grow too strong
And wrap around my ribs
And reach out
And strangle my heart?


So, perhaps I will catch a snake
and slip it inside
fangs to protect me
coiled to strike.
But what if its venom 
seeps into my blood
and it sheds me
like another skin?


Perhaps I will fill it with dreams,
but no --
dreams have an emptiness of their own.


So I reach back inside
and return the rib. 
And I fall asleep. 
















































When I finally meet Death


When I finally meet Death
He is not cold 
Like I expected.
He is fat. 
And warm and supple 
Ripe with the fruits of his labor. 


He laughs as he sweeps souls
From one world to the next.
And his laugh is like honey
Sweet and slow
Dripping down his chin.  


He is wealth, he is extravagance.
He is rich from his trade.
The world has given 
A harvest of plenty.


When I finally meet Death
I am not afraid 
Like I expected.
And I ask him: 
What will come next?
And he says:
What came before.
























… but can I still come home? 


It bubbles under the skin of the black and white 
wallpaper wrapping the front halls entrance. 
Sweetness festers under the floorboards of 
your mothers living room. It doesn’t stain, 
Just lingers in the air
Stagnant.


Whispers scream the truth over dinners
Plated for five but seating six. Tired 
Eyes serve from jeweled hands not held
For a decade. The heat is kept on during summer,
Closeting the flame
Passionless. 


It smiles behind the glass of systematically
Framed and hung family portraits. Old duvets
weep from separate bedrooms as the 
Flowers are never allowed to die. They’re 
Slaughtered outside these walls
Replaced. 


Shadows walk the backyard gardens in 
Silence. Paired frogs sit closely to watch their
Tadpoles learn how to breathe without water.
Envy burns the grass brown but rain cleanses
The arson pristine 
Perfect. 


It yells “I love you” until the mirror finally 
Breaks, coughs red pride all over the floor.
Secrets that were never promised crawl from
Behind the crown moldings and into your mouth. 
You suck and choke on 21 lackluster years
Alone. 






Good Mourning
There is nothing wrong
With minty toothpaste until
It meets orange juice.


Never meant to mix
And God, when they touch it’s
Fucking disgusting.






























































Like the Sun


she is like the sun he says
(and that is why
he loves her) 
does she remember those smoky lines
drawn across haze-ridden skies 
the rising dust in
sultry southern heat where she sits 
sideways
on a scrappy bicycle, my father in 
front, his fingers curled around 
metal handlebars. shrouded
by some all-encompassing glamour—perhaps 
it is hers, and hers alone
(because she is the sun)
moving across fractured concrete sidewalks, cramped stones behind
broken arches, dripping rain, curved around
silvery window bars. there is 
nothing
there now, only a layer
of dust, sinter settled slowly across city streets, and surely
no sun 
she must have taken
it with her, offered it to a
child, her child
and how she falters when
I refuse






















BC Haikus


Eagle


Once flew high overhead
Wings spread, echoing freedom
Trapped in golden shell



Library


A lifetime of knowledge
But no answer as to why
I can not focus



Dining Hall


Thought I was hungry
But then I saw you serving
Gross chicken again



Million Dollar Stairs


I finally climbed them
From the bottom to the top
Where is my money?



Gasson


Bong...bong...bong...bong...bong…
bong...bong...bong...bong...bong…bong...bong.
It is twelve o’clock.












Guangzhou, 1985 – America, present


this is what I know of
heady afternoons in the glow
of a humid twilight where she sleeps 
a woven bamboo pillow beneath ropes 
of dark hair, damp tendrils curled 
the faint click of the metal door
when he comes back


streams of sunlight pooling
on ashen carpet, across the thick
comforter tucked under her chin
eyelids fluttering as I trace letters
on a plastic tablecloth
voices reverberating through
white wood. his voice echoes
her eyes are open 
and he loves her, it is true


what I know
is possibly nothing but
fabrication, sliced across
raised voices and implausible reconciliation
the one time I saw her, legs curled
on the floral loveseat
waiting, I thought, for the world
to begin rotating again
and even now:
I would not want
to be them
















Thomas and the Karyotype 


“Thomas, called Didymus, one of the Twelve, was not with them when Jesus came.” (Jn 20:24) 
Didymus: derived from the Greek didymos, meaning “twin” or “double.”


I am not the hero of the skeptic. 
Have you ever felt his wasteland in your soul?


You could never feel it at all—the static screen, the senseless Novocain, 
a sweet high giggle of denial.


No, I was the child of Doubt, my daughter, 
differing on indispensable genes—


see the weakened sugars linking helix to helix, 
faltering in the slight microbial breeze;


Doubt—that is, love confounded by its object—
pulling apart the scroll in every cell


and souring organelles—though every one tries. 
Every atom tries to write itself aright again,


to find and fix the fatal locus 
where the question leaves the answer unexpressed.


The problem recessed into chromosomal comfort so small
you would think I couldn’t feel it at all


though it split me in two—
gave me skin that needed touch, eyes that had to watch, else could not believe.


Why shouldn’t it be Doubt breaks us 
in horrible haploids, down to the bases?


It is a loss of mingling, combination,
dear chiasmus, crossing maxims dear.


I got my diagnosis from my Second Thomas,
I got my diagnosis in the mirror:


Fatal?  I asked,
In how many cases? How soothe, how cure? 


Autoimmune? Genetic?—or did I touch
a chemical once?


How long can I live 
before I’m unwritten in two, 


a doubting me, a doubting you, 
your senses at my throat, my faith at yours? 


Must we take blood?—and Whose?—
and where to prick, with what results? 


What will I see?
Can we kill Doubt before Doubt kills Me?


He told me: I am Didymus,
We’re same, except there’s two of us. 


Your pain is mine—we have two minds
and twice the same unfit solutions. 


But two’s too many for a soul,
so we’ll perish till we are 


a single cell, a single side,
a sole relief. And since we are 


the same, we wept our matching tears
for one another’s unbelief.






























Stargazing in Persia
        
Go to the square and tell me if he’s still there,
the body ever present in my mind:
one of the Twelve they clubbed the other day,
stretched in the dust like a map
I couldn’t read,
whom no one had taken away.


Go see there mangled
Jude Thaddeus’s back so blackly bruised
it minded me of heaven,
dark and twisted before the earth was born, 
vacant violent purple-blues
in galaxies of flesh,
a knotted sky swelled with blood and bone.


Now he doesn’t cry—
there’s wordless desperation scrawled 
on his skin robbed and robeless,
where clotted fire links his endless nebulas,
where in his face there burns a cosmic
sympathy for night.


I must’ve known his bruises all my life.


Go search and see
if evening falls on the martyr-corpse,
my thoughts revolving on him 
as bands on planets;
tell me if the sunset dyes his skin 
to make his violets shine hope-green,
tell me if his open eye still dances 
like the first horizon’s star,
like a nascent blazing set upon the dark.


















Sticker 


Tristan really wants the nippleless Tarzan sticker. He’s never wanted anything this badly, and I can’t imagine I’ve ever wanted anything this badly, too. It’s not like they’d let me take it, though. But still, have you ever looked your child in the eyes, their eyes soaked with tears, and told them that no, you wouldn’t do that harmless thing to make them happy?
My son loves fast food. It’s okay. He has a fast metabolism and seeing the smile on his face after he opens his bag to find a toy warms my heart. It’s what makes children worth it. 
Every time we order, Tristan sees the “promotions” on the windows of the McDonald’s. They’re stickers, usually, they’re some kind of car with flames along the side or a cartoon from one of the shows he watches. This time we see Tarzan stuck onto the windows, Jane, too, and some gorillas. Tristan takes a special liking. Tarzan was the first movie he saw, he’s still young, and for some reason, decides that this air bubble-infested McDonald’s decoration is what he wants most in the world. 
“Can we buy it?” he asks.
I look back at him. I’m stopped because we just ordered our food. 
“No,” I say to him. “That belongs to McDonald’s.”
“But why can’t we just ask them for it?”
He’s genuine, and since I know they’ll say no, I decide they can take the blame today. He doesn’t take “no” very well usually, but he’s four years old. I can’t get mad at him.
We pull up to the first window. 
“That’ll be eleven dollars and sixteen cents.”
I rummage through my purse trying to find exact change. I smile up at the cashier, who can’t be older than sixteen. 
“Say, do you know if you have any of those stickers, that you put on the window, in the back? Would you be willing to sell one?”
        He blinks at me. I’m not sure whether it’s because he doesn’t really understand what I’m talking about or if he’s just shocked that someone actually asked to buy one of those things. They’re junk, I know. I don’t disagree with that. I feel like I remember seeing one of Tarzan’s nipples peeled off.
        “I’ll go ask my manager.” 
        He’s gone for a minute or two. I actually forgot to give him the money, but he’ll come back and get it. I glance by at Tristan and he’s smiling up at me, obviously optimistic. He really thought we would be going home with something other than a Happy Meal and a plastic toy. 
        The sixteen-year-old comes back. 
        “Sorry, we can’t sell those to you.” He doesn’t seem very sorry if I’m being honest, but I wouldn’t have been sorry either. I’m surprised he even checked. 
        “Thanks,” I say. I turn to look at Tristan, who’s pouting. He looks like he’s about to cry, but he hasn’t started yet, thank God. I think if he did I would give in. I could give in. He doesn’t cry that much, it wouldn’t hurt. I don’t think it’d help, either, though. Tristan needs to learn that life doesn’t always hand you the things you want. Sometimes you have to work for it. Or sometimes even you have to accept what you have and just say yes. Yes, you’ll marry him. Even if you don’t truly feel it. Sometimes it’s the only option you feel that you have.
        He starts crying, but we’re already on the road, heading away from McDonald’s. I tell him sorry, but we can’t turn back. He sniffles but stops crying, and I think he understands. He isn’t crying, he’s just sad. And I’d take a sad child over a screeching one any day. His sister was the former, unfortunately. She’s older now. She said she wanted to leave Connecticut as soon as she could, and did just that. She says college is treating her well.
        I keep driving until we get home. The sun’s set--it’s getting closer to Tristan’s bedtime by now, and luckily he seems a bit tired out. If there’s one thing I can count on, it’s that he tires out quickly. A fit usually means he’s done for the day, and even though he was relatively calm tonight, he worked himself up enough to have his eyes struggle to stay open. 
        We work our way up to his bedroom and after he brushes his teeth I tuck him into bed. He’s past the age for a bedtime story, or so he says, and so even though I don’t want to I shut the door gently while his eyes stay glued to the ceiling. I can still see the spots on his face from where his tears tried. I walk down the stairs--Tom isn’t home, he’s still on his business trip--and I sit downstairs and turn the television on. 
        Friends is on. It’s the episode where Monica thinks Chandler is sexually attracted to sharks, so she puts Jaws on the TV to turn him on. I don’t know if it makes me a bad person, but I don’t think I would ever do that for Tom. I wouldn’t do a lot of things for him, but I don’t think that makes me a bad wife. It certainly doesn’t make me a bad mother, but does Tristan know that? Sarah doesn’t, I think. She left for a reason. She wanted to leave. Will Tristan leave, too?
        I grab car keys from the kitchen counter. Am I really doing this? I mean, I am,  I’ve grabbed the keys so it’s too late now. Once you make a commitment, it’s rude to back out. I told Sarah that so I should tell myself that. I’m not a hypocrite. This isn’t wrong. 
        The door’s open now and I’m locking it behind me. Tristan’s asleep, he’s safe. This is a nice neighborhood. The car door clicks as I unlock it. It’s Tom’s car, not mine, so if there’re cameras they’ll see it’s his car. Tristan won’t notice. He’s asleep. He won’t even hear the car leave. I’m also not even wearing a mask, so the camera wouldn’t see me. I’m too far in. I also don’t own any ski masks, but why would I? I don’t ski. 
        I sit down in the driver’s seat and my heart starts to race. It hit me before that I was about to rob from McDonald’s, and sure that may seem stupid since it is, but I’m really about to go and rob a McDonald’s for a sticker. 
After a sharp turn, I pull into the parking lot. It’s nearly empty, only two cars are here from what I can see, and the lights are still on inside. Of course, the lights would be on. I’m such an idiot. It’s only nine. It’s nine on a Friday night, so obviously they’d still be open. I just wanna smack myself because damn, I’m really about to walk into a McDonald’s and scrape a sticker off the window with my cold fingers. 
I slam the door shut, not thinking, but at this point, I’m going to get caught anyway. If someone sees me before I actually try to steal anything I can stop. They can’t arrest me for looking at a sticker. That’s not a crime. Stealing one is, sure, but I haven’t done it yet. I don’t have to do it. 
One step forward. One more. I can see the same sixteen-year-old from before at the window and he’s handing a woman her bag of food. His hair’s poking out of his yellow visor and I swear some hair probably jumped out from his scalp and into her fries, but it’s fine because that’s not my food. 
I feel like I’m practically running now and I know I’m not but I really feel like I am because one second I’m at the doors of Tom’s car and one second later I’m inside the McDonald’s, and my back is to the teenage cashier. I spin around to make sure he doesn’t see me, but he does, and he’s staring at me, and I can tell that he recognizes me, but he seems truly confused at what to do right now. I’m a forty-year-old woman peeling a Tarzan sticker off of a McDonald’s window. His mouth is wide open, mine’s tensed up because I’m so nervous, but before I know it I’m barreling into the door and running out from the McDonald’s. I don’t even check to see if he’s following me. Maybe he’ll chase after me. Can he drive? I doubt it. But maybe. I’m in the driver’s seat and there’s no one around me. I toss Tarzan into the passenger seat, no seatbelt, and take off.
Oh my God.
I did that. I stole the sticker from the McDonald’s. I kidnapped Tarzan. He doesn’t move in the seat next to me, even when I come to a full stop at the light. It’s nice. It’s like I’m not alone in the car, but nobody’s complaining to me, or asking for something, or saying I’m going too slow, or ignoring me whenever I talk.
I’m home now, and so is Tarzan. I carry him through the doors, cradled in my arms like a small child, and I tiptoe up to Tristan’s room. He’ll be surprised in the morning and sure, I won’t get to see the smile on the face when he notices Tarzan plastered on his wall, but it’ll be worth it when he races down the stairs and comes bouncing into the kitchen to tell me about what showed up. I’ll pour him a bowl of cereal and smile because yes, that really is so cool, and we’ll spend the day talking about how fun Tarzan was, and we’ll keep talking until Tom comes home, and everything will be fine. 


Ode to the Raccoon Who Eats My Trash


It is the split down the spine of my green, 
Newton-tattooed garbage bin 
that holds my rotting, expired chicken breasts, 
forgotten eggshells and 
metallic scraps that were once seltzer 


You have ripped the hole with your sharp, 
candy-corn-like chompers,
big enough for your furry body
to squeeze through just enough
for when I peak my head out of the kitchen window, 
I see your stripped tail hoist like a surrender flag  


A child bobbing for apples, 
you move in and out of the Jack-O-Lantern carving,
moments away from finding tonight’s dinner
Will it be my Tuesday’s lunch of orzo 
 that ends in your grimy paws? 
Or perhaps my Sunday Brunch 
of wheat toast with raspberry preserves? 


My housemate says he hears you 
every night
from his first floor bedroom window
where tops of the green and blue plastic cylinders 
look like mountain peaks when he sits in bed


From the third floor, 
I am never lucky enough 
to hear you as I flick through tv channels, 
but I know you are there 


The sprinkling of Coke cans, raspberries, 
and cheddar cheese on my door steps 
have stopped taking me by surprise 
each morning as I unlock the door
that separates me from you










Josh


Hangs
His fingers gripping the edges of 
The balcony, their tips
White with pressure.


Light combs through 
Mahogany hair that plasters a face
Where two dull angels weep.
Where limp, lifeless lips
Hang over a forgotten smile
And sorrow wades in rivers that
Rush down ruby hills.


Below him, a crowd 
Lingers, listening as the wind 
Serenades them with its sweet songs of spring.
He cannot hear them
But they hear him.


“I don’t want to live anymore!”
His screech lurks, haunting the air,
Disenchanting the people below and hanging still as 
They scatter away


Teachers push past 
“Go to class,” they spit
“Don’t say a word,” they growl 
I walk away but the boy’s cries still stab


Back inside, the halls have become jungles.
Leopards with Adidas paws
Speed past blood-red lockers 
On the hunt for someone to tell
For someone who will listen 


While I enter a classroom 
Lousy with the laughter 
Of boys and girls 
Ignorant of the dark realities 
That prowl just outside the door


Silently, I take my seat 
Next to Josh’s sister, waiting
Until the teachers come
Until that darkness slithers beyond the door
And comes to get her




















































































9 weeks after his death


trails of black mascara crawl 
inching their way 
down
her 
face
t i p t o e i n g across ivory skin
scattering themselves in a 
wild tangle of hair as red
as the solo cup 
she clutches
as if
it were
him


she raises the cup to her lips
and once more electricity runs 
        down 
        her 
        throat
a current ordered
to shock


she can feel it creeping
slithering its way into her blood
a kind of energy
without force


“more” 


her legs are corpses now
walking without souls
unable to be directed
as she’s forgotten
what’s left
            what’s right
faceless voices speak to her in riddles
she can’t solve
and people-like images
take her cup
lie her down
and watch her falsified reality 
fades to darkness


It Didn’t Taste the Same


Seven songs through the five hour trip 
we made a second stop. Turning around on 
a one lane mountain made my skin singe 
but the peaches were a salve. You 
fed me juicy bites as we sped, deciding 
fresh peach ice cream wasn’t exciting enough 
you mixed in chunks of peaches, skinned and 
bitten from our stash. They were meant to 
last the ride but survived barely longer
than my mom's rhubarb in the snow. Plants 
fill the grated holes in my heart and 
that’s why - the day I tried to shred our love - 
I brought you a cactus. Home Depot is 
a cavern where I’ve cried on paint chips and 
called out, waiting for the echo 
of peaches on lips and juices 
on seats and tires on gravel - sliding. 
Why did you name the cactus Peaches?






































to my girl, now gone


I drip with sweat in the midday sun, 
though she doesn’t seem to mind. Tracing 
her fingers across my condensation 
she makes clear a patch on my side and 
stares through me. I swell with pride 
when she asks for more. Years later, 
I’ll be the taste to remind her
 
of summer days with ancient neighbors; 
of playing in the garden and grooming their dog;
of their sloping yard and the immense creek. 
Sometimes she would take me to the water’s edge 
and sip as she dipped her toes. I remember 


the day she poured me out, an offering 
to the fragile fish who were thirsty, 
a tithe for the tide, meant to share her joy 
and expand mine. I mixed with the water, 


saw crawfish and tadpoles and more. 
Shared my pulp with the shore and 
my sugar with the silt and let myself settle 
to the bottom of this shrine. I stared 
up through a glittering new window, 
warmed myself with the view. A child, 
curious, sweet, unceasing. 
Empty glass in hand, she turns from me
and clamors up the slope in search of more.














morning routine


Self-loathing is fleece, to be
slipped into early on the coldest days. 
Comforting, known, surprisingly 


durable. It’s been washed and wrung 
and hung to dry and even though mom 
thinks it’s unbecoming, I can’t stop wearing


it. Today my face is fog as I lean across
reality to pop zits in the bathroom mirror. 
Who is betrayed when toothpaste spatters,


misses the brush? White flecks on steam.
Given one chance at functionality, 
I still miss. But, bedraggled and brazen


there is strength to arise in the morning, 
even not knowing when purpose will come. 


































I swear,


every day I feel 
more and more
on the verge of tears.


I hold back the floodgate, 
try to seal the tap tight, it won’t go
righty-tighty, I know—


I turn and I turn, my head 
and my eyes, I beg on my knees 
of the self, in its spite;


but see, the lilacs quiver in the breeze;
in humid air they loosen and unbind and twist,
bearing a sweet scent,


or a thrush soars high among the trees,
his song trickling in through my ears, oiling 
the stubborn spigot, which gives in


and spins left, I think,  
plenty of tears left, and I think        
a leak is beginning to spring. 








































A Taste


Far too many books 
on the shelf in the shop; 


they’re staring me down 
from their ledges.


Gilt volumes of Judaica wink,
the glint of gold edges


inviting, but which dish to choose
in this banquet? I’m already full


of the heaps of anthologies 
on whom I heap apologies,


because there are too many 
good poems to read them all through. 


Every month, another slew 
of well-designed covers 


trendy fonts on pleasant colors,
and someone’s life’s work,


side-by-side with a fruity graphic novel—
a tragedy for my distracted eye. 


When I go home with some collection,
some tongue-tangle of short stories,


another revolution’s meal, good for nothing—
it will be but a nibble,


hardly a meaningful sample 
of the pages I’ll never taste.