In Which a Young Fellow Learns a Valuable Lesson
For a number of bewildering and vaguely depressing reasons, Parker Arquette, a freelance waiter and rumored male prostitute, found himself crossing the country in a decrepit grey sedan. Parker sat in the backseat in between Louisiana Ruffles, a severely obese man who owned the digital media conglomerate ‘Truth to Flower,’ and Florentine, an opera-singer-for-hire whose real name was Bertha. In the front passenger seat, there sat a man named Robby Muffins, who was a divorce attorney with a lucrative career path and retirement plans. The man driving the car went by the name of Smith and he was a poet of positively miniscule standing in the greater Boston artistic community. The man in the trunk of the car was of absolutely no relevance whatsoever to the larger scheme of things and therefore merits no further mention.
“The smell of armpits overwhelms me,” Smith whispered. Parker casually tucked his nose directly into the pit of his arm and remembered that he hadn’t washed himself in two weeks due to a series of mishaps that all seemed to stem from his decision seven years ago to pursue an English major. 
A large sign on the side of the long and lonely highway announced that they had just crossed into Wisconsin. They would drive straight through and over to Minnesota where Florentine would perform a brief concert for the Association of Minnesotan Taxidermy Professionals. After this they would continue their trek to the Pacific Ocean, to sunny California, where each of these disparate people would go their separate ways. In the meantime, Parker, the young man in question, was meant to be writing a probing, fascinating, and adenoidal piece on Florentine’s successful career in the arts. An operatically-gifted woman, Florentine had managed to turn her talent into a money-making phenomenon through sheer hard work and an industrious spirit that reveled in the cruel arena of world-class opera. Now people of great wealth and power hired her to sing them heart-wrenching and soul-molesting arias. Parker was unsure of how he could possibly write a piece of journalism that had the symptoms of a human being with enlarged adenoids, but he would sure give it a shot. 
This assignment was the first time Parker would ever receive cold hard mulla for his writing efforts. Louisiana had agreed to employee Parker for one reason: Parker was willing to work for one-quarter the pay any respectable professional would have demanded. In order to ensure that Parker, a man known for his many failures, would not fail, Louisiana had decided to accompany him on this wild ride. Robby joined them as Florentine’s legal counsel, and Smith, Parker’s roommate, forced himself into the situation despite the fact that no one wanted him there.
        Parker, being a man worthy of extensive background information, was a recent graduate of an east-coast university of middling reputation. He had a degree in English and had read Ulysses. He was also a failure. His first attempt at a writing career had ended in disaster when a spelling mishap in a widely-distributed column about cheese curds led to a minor international incident. This had led to Parker’s painful and yet hilarious downfall. Now, as rumors of male prostitution ran rampant, Parker was attempting to put his liberal arts education to good use and finally rake in the fat stacks.  
        “Since graduation, most of my money comes from my job as a freelance waiter,” Parker told Florentine, as the car sped down the abandoned highway. 
        “So do you write short stories or magazine pieces or something?” Florentine asked.
        “No, I go to various restaurants and take people’s orders,” Parker said. “I say ‘you guys’ a lot and sometimes even get tips.”
        “Oh,” Florence said. “Freelance waiter.”
        “Yeah, but I’m hoping to make something of myself through hard work and perseverance.”
        “Follow your dreams, little man. Someday maybe you’ll reach them.”
“Thank you very much for the advice, Ms. Florentine. It means a lot coming from a successful artist such as yourself.”
“Yeah, I’m great. Now, just to let you know, I have some friends in Minnesota who could use the services of an ugly, little male prostitute, and I figured you could use the work so….”
Parker’s heart dropped. Not in the literal sense that it fell into his gut or something along those lines, but in a figurative manner, meaning that the feeling of hope and achievement he had moments earlier was crushed by the reminder that he was widely assumed to be a male prostitute. 
“I am not, nor have I ever been, a male prostitute,” Parker said, crossing his arms in a show of seriousness. “All that happened was I contracted a fungal infection on my face from sleeping in a bed that, unbeknownst to me, was riddled with venereal disease. This is the kind of thing that happens when you’re a penniless English major attempting to make a living in the urban jungle.”
        Parker looked at himself in the rearview mirror. Florentine turned toward the window. It can only be assumed she did this to avoid the ugliness of Parker, who clearly disgusted her with his armpit stank and funny-lookin’ face.  
        In the front seat, Smith was muttering quietly to himself.
        “My bingbong is leaking / I do not verse / My passion bursts and junks / Across the chasm / Fiery and teeming and piles on piles / Defecation / Rebirth / Sheeming / Glory and Sauce.”
        “Is that a poem about pooping?” Parker asked.
        Smith threw his head back and laughed a laugh of mirthful laughter.
        “Parker, you simpleton,” he said. “If only you knew what this was about. I suspect you might just die.”
        Smith then turned around, which was quite risky considering the fact that he was driving the car, and hung a small plastic sign around the back of his headrest. This sign read: “I AM BETTER THAN YOU AND ALWAYS WILL BE.” Smith was the type of person who submitted his poems to literary magazines and then used the term ‘Philistines’ when they were invariably rejected. He had never earned a cent in his life and yet somehow remained smug and self-assured. This was because his mother was the CEO of a major insurance company. Parker had once tried to tear Smith’s arm off during an episode of debauchery and keytar-playing in their Allston apartment and their roommate relationship has since grown steadily worse.  
        Smith returned his full attention to driving. Florentine (whose real name, it must be remembered, is Bertha) began to sing the impressive aria ‘Casta Diva’ from Bellini’s ‘Norma.’ Robby, from his position in the passenger seat, slipped her a little bit of cash money for her troubles. Few have ever known how deeply Robby Muffins loves opera. 
        Parker turned to Louisiana, whose copious beer belly was pressed up against the seat in front of him.
        “Louisiana, I think I’m starting to have regrets about taking this trip,” he said. “I’m extremely unhappy with my life, myself, and everyone around me. Sometimes, I burst into tears in the shower, which is convenient because I can wipe the snot away on my arm without being gross, but still remains painful and inconvenient in an emotional way. Other times I wake up feeling empty and alone, with nowhere to go and nothing but dread for my future.”
        “No no no no no no no,” Louisiana said. “We’ll have none of that now. No one wants to hear that depressing bologna. You’re being paid to amuse and enthuse, buddy.”
        Robby Muffins turned around and pointed a swollen finger at Parker. He slowly moved the finger closer to Parker’s nose until eventually he lightly tapped the greasy little bulb that sat in the middle of Parker’s face. 
        “If you were a more practical man you would be in my position,” Robby said. “Do you think I wake up feeling like a sack of turds? No, because I’m a lawyer. I have health benefits and an impressive salary. Mr. Muffins is living the life of the upper middle-class, baby. Seven years of school and then I’m living large in a barge. That’s right, I own a barge. I bought it because I have money, and I’m not a broke English major failure like you. Know what I’ve read? Nothing. I read The Great Gatsby in middle school and then just gave up on books because they’re stupid. And guess what? Society values me more than you, because I contribute. I make things happen while you sit at home farting and weeping like the child you are.”
        No one spoke for a second. Florentine stopped singing her aria. 
        “OK,” Parker said. 
        Robby smiled, pleased that he had conveyed his message. Florentine began singing the ‘Lacrimosa’ from Mozart’s Requiem.
        “Listen here Parker,” Louisiana said, sighing a sigh. “All you need to know is that this is the car you’re in, and I’m going to pay you when you do your job, and you should be happy to have the opportunity to be in this car with these people making money. Don’t you like classical music? Enjoy listening to Florentine, if nothing else.”
        “Actually, I’m more of an Alt-Country and Nu-Folk fan.”
        With that one sentence, Parker lost the sympathy of the entire car. Even the guy in the trunk thought Parker was the worst. In the ensuing silence, Parker gazed out the window, as he was prone to do and introspected. 
        “You know I’m from here?” he said to no one in particular. 
        Florentine looked out the window at the passing Wisconsin farmland.
        “I’m sorry,” she said. 
        “Just stop talking and sit there,” Louisiana said. “Eventually we’ll make it to California.”
        “What if I don’t want to go to California?” Parker said. “What if I don’t want this job at all? What if I’m searching for some sort of lesson that I have been promised but that seems increasingly impossible to find in this cramped car of cartoonish collusion?”
        “Alliteration won’t get you anywhere, young man. If you don’t want to go to California, you go to California anyway. California’s where the money is. It’s where everyone wants you to go. You chose to get in this car, now finish the damn ride.”
        Parker chewed on some dead lip skin. Louisiana cracked a beer that he had hidden away under the folds of his stomach and drank it. 
“O.K, listen to this,” he said. “I have some comforting words: We’re all going to die. Death is around every corner, so hold onto your pantaloons and do what I tell you. After work, you can drink until you pass out, and everyone will be happy.”
        “Robby Muffins should have a bigger role in this conversation,” Robby Muffins said. “Seeing as Robby Muffins went to law school and made something of himself, while Parker Arquette is, and always will be, a bum.”
        “Stay right here, Parker,” Louisiana said. “Just close your eyes and accept it.”
        Parker looked out the window at the expansive Wisconsin scenery as it flew by. The sound of Nu-Folk began to fill his ears: the beautiful, immediately-recognizable tambour of Johnny Flynn and the Sussex Wit, his favorite Nu-Folk band. Man oh man did Parker love his Nu-Folk. And that really means love in the legitimate sense of a self-sacrificing commitment, not in the ‘oh, I love you second-cousin Patricia, you’re the best’ kind of way. 
        “What’s this crap on the radio?” Smith said. “This sucks.”
        “Pull this car over right now,” Parker said. Bones were sticking straight out of the camel’s straw-covered back. 
        “Why?”
        “Do it. I’m tired of your stupid, self-important face. If you can’t appreciate the lyrical and melodic genius of Johnny Flynn, you’re not worth my time.”
        “We broke Parker,” Robby Muffins said.
        “It’s a folk song,” Louisiana said. “Don’t go nuts because Smith doesn’t like it. Smith writes poems about pooping, what does he matter?”
        “It’s Nu-Folk,” Parker screamed. “And I’m a big fan.”
        “This is about a lot more than Nu-Folk,” Florentine said. “I understand you Parker, even if I think you’re kind of dumb and annoying.”
        “Pull over, Smith,” Parker repeated, speaking through gritted teeth as the overwhelming and suffocating stench of his own armpits filled the air. 
        “Why?” Smith said. “I’m not clear on the reason. Is this some sort of dumbass metaphor? We are in the middle of Wisconsin farmland. We could get deliveranced out here for God’s sake. If I die, my pen will never be able to gleam the contents of my teeming brain.”
        Parker began repeating ‘Just pull over’ in a loud, nasal tone of voice that felt like someone funneling buckets of bacon fat into your ears: greasy and unpleasant. Eventually, Smith acquiesced, declaring in a loud voice “I’m acquiescing.”
        Parker crawled over Louisiana’s mammoth stomach and pushed open the door. A grain silo stood in the distance past miles and miles of grass and distant trees, sunlight and overgrowth. He leapt onto the shoulder of the road, gravel crunching under foot, and took off running into the empty and far-stretching fields, leaving the car and the road and the endless, meaningless chatter behind. Louisiana screamed after him while Robby Muffins laughed at his foolishness, but he kept running full-sprint into the wind, a goofy smile plastered across his face. 














Villanelle Hypothetical 
My mother rolled her neck; “What if,” I said,
“Cinderella had never lost her shoes,
Money is made from air, and God is dead?


And the girl’s hood was really green, not red?
And Negroland had never learned the blues?”
My mother rolled her neck; “What if,” I said,


“Negroland could afford their daily bread,
And Tom Robinson’s final words were, ‘Adieu
Money is made from air, and God is dead.’


And what if MLK was not shot dead?
Then who or where would our eyes look up to?”
My mother rolled her neck; “What if,” I said,


“The boy can’t cry wolf because he’s a man?
And from all these years, Life reveals one truth—
Money is made from air, and God is dead.


What if I become everything I dread?
And we aren’t one in millions, but few?”
My mother rolled her neck; “What if,” I said,
“Money is made from air, and God is dead?”






{UNTITLED FOR NOW}
Dad, the bus rolls by without stopping for me;
The driver is probably in a tired
                                        Hurry like most of us are
We still don’t have the hang of
                Working the grill and the
                                        Weeds in the yard are thriving
Waiting for the yard guys to come, or one of the neighbor’s sons. I think
I am                                         the daughter you
Wanted to raise. It’s Spring here, or Winter, or Fall—
        They all feel the same in Jasper: blue skies, sudden 
                                Rainstorms that terrorize the landscape for half an hour,
        And sometimes Mom is crying. Linds is changing the color
Of her room because girls shouldn’t like pink. Frankie is going to Auburn to play baseball
Like you did. Mom and I know 
He likes football more and wanted to go to Louisville. 
Mom still won’t travel by plane or drive near the airport
Prom is next weekend
 And all 
The girls are taking                 pictures with 
The fathers they do have. For months I have been thinking what a father means to his daughter:
Watching how a boy treats his mother because
                                                        That is how he will treat me. Folding my hands
‘        Into a solid fist, throwing a punch, but teaching that ladies only 
Fight to protect themselves. Yelling and loving and seeming
        Tough and unapproachable. When I change a tire or jump a car,
                                Seeing your XL flannels hanging in the closet with your scent faintly dangling on the last threads I think:
                                        This is it. 
Canto III

I am a motel named Crimson Keep
with tattered drapes and silent dreams
the walls and doors cross stitched like seams
And here is where my Lucy sleeps

nestled tight beneath the bed
she cuddles with my angel’s head
its halo shimmers the nipbar light
so I let my seraphim cry at night

while Lucy ushers in the inferno tide
my corners crouching whisper hell and hide












































Cattle Prod

There are jagged orange songs
at the Milk Bar tonight
trembling the nervous game up our thighs

Bodies numb from red severed minds
and I am young, my back is tender
my flesh is free and roams in green

The Farmers look like parching lips
and I do not notice I am an udder ripe
will I be drunk at the Milk Bar tonight

















































Katabasis


Dull is life in the slow beat
That does not match the jackal heart
ravenous, dying vibrant like November red
whose teeth do jaw and jar the sky
bleeding dawn like passion rose 
knock the Jericho drum in my chest
heaven's walls collapsing like a punctured lung breathless;
dare my wild mind, mad bone, truth flesh
quick march me to abandon's black hood
smiling before the beast's gray teeth
pumping hard like living meat
Dull is life in the slow beat




































































11:43


I have come to melt into the smell of his skin. There is
no place that contains me quite so well as
the curve of his jaw when I nestle my face there and he
tells me he likes it when I do that. Like the face


of a warm little cat finds home and sleep on your chest, rising
and falling with soft, even breaths. There is no comfort like 
laced fingers that linger despite slightly 
damp palms and the way his eyes 
look so green in a dark room, with only a sliver of the moon


falling between opaque curtains. I have never liked the darkness
alone, but I’d be a night owl with him, stubbly kisses 
and all. And even wish a little wish
that the daylight hours could delay, for the silent company
of words that fade into sleepy breaths. 
























































Holy Water


I would love them all the more
if my feeble heart could let me:
the speckled, broken firmament that kisses 
the strip of skin at the part of my hair,
and the soft earth who holds my feet in place.
Her gooey soil embraces my soles,
damp and tender at the base of rubber boots. 
But how can human love hold it all
in a heart that delicately depends 
on such sustenance? The heavens must pour fourth 
their goblets of grace to feed our food,
and we, wide-eyed and open-mouthed,
merely wait, to be nourished with a love
we cannot understand. 






























































Once On Scorched Earth 


I


This memory ascends like a tower of flames, 
heat licking at lacquered wood panels of rusted corridors. 
Her strands of bloody gold make streams of angel hair; it flows quick and furious, 
and I stand inches above the rage wishing just to drown in it,
once it wrapped me in warmth, but has returned in this memory, 
and I fear it will run dry again. 


II


Don’t you remember?
Movements draped in white linen, silhouette ivory moon,
each step a gentle poison, each breath a silent swoon.
Since the dawn you walked, with autumn falling soft,
we met, you smiled, I waited while you washed.
The bones of hard-fought union lay smooth and bare,
as they felt your toes curl the moss of an older grove,
sparked alive, marrow restored.




III


Dead love sails through the hazy airs of morning dreams
recollections of beauty returning as
I lie surrounded by fire, skulls and teeth
glutton clay mulched by our remains;
we met here, under night’s haven.
Yet with the awakened sun
we burned, as you whispered low and heavy
Stay. 
We drifted lonely, far away.


Soothe the skin chipping like scorched earth,
one last time, embrace, succumb,
and sink to the soil in silent rebirth.














Image
inspired by the story of Abdul Basit
This isn’t the look
of a murderer
I pictured
Satan ears a twitching
smirk.


Paralyzed waist down
picture snapped neck up.
If his eyes told the story,
I would’ve thought 
a man’s resolve 
was proof of innocence.


He’s the first who can’t
reach the execution point 
on his own feet
but he wouldn’t be the first 
to be hiding wings.




















































Her (Sestina)
Amidst headlong human traffic, he plucks the banjo
strings in the city square. Feet tapping together
to the music, the others miss the bicycle
circling around the fountain like a pair of lips
around another – gentle and delicate.
Yesterday she wasn’t wearing any shoes.


Today she’s wearing clean white shoes,
pedaling in rhythm with the strumming of the banjo.
His eyes dart quickly between her delicate
wrists and the steel strings that dance together
between his fingers the way his lips
tremble at the sight of her pink bicycle.


The fountain splashes water on the bicycle,
but she remains untouched. Her dry shoes
step off the pedals and her wet lips
purse slightly. She admires the banjo – 
in that moment they lock gaze together
until she realizes her eyes are too delicate.


For the nightfall today is delicate,
she hides herself behind the bicycle
until a strange man comes to get her.
He pictures the stranger taking off her shoes,
yet his fingers still ride on the rusty banjo
strings. He pictures her scarred lips.


He pictures a field of tulips
to distract his mind. His delicate
fingers bleed against the worn-out banjo
strings. The night swallows her bicycle
and tosses around her body and her shoes
in a room where they don’t belong together. 


She rises from the bed to gather
the money. She cannot keep her lips
from trembling. She doubts her white shoes
will tell the story of her delicate
self when she returns for the bicycle
she left with the man with the banjo.


She walks back to the square with shoes
in her hands. He takes the laces between his delicate
fingers and makes out new strings for his banjo. 


X
I’m looking for you amongst the immense, illiterate, consoling angels,
searching for your tone of meaning 
but without the words,
how the collapse of foam and liquid sand
remind me of your raspy voice and its salty kiss of withdrawal.


I’m trying to resurrect the conjunction of the mind 
and opposition of the stars,
the stain of love,


that taste of transcendence in the night air
when I devoured myself with your eyes.
















































The Common
I walk slowly in the sun,
naked to the grass,
a child of ancient myth
who let his gods
slowly die
in the blue dominions
of the half dreamt 
open sky,
an emptiness,
aloft
in the wind blowing past,
like a bee
making love to flowers 
and swarming in the hive,
oozing honey
heavy with sunlight
and buzzing by
like a bird
whose doesn’t know
about time,
but still feels the pull
of earth’s magnetic heart.




































Pesky Memory


You made our PB&Js
With too much jelly,
Just how I like them.


We carried them
To our private beach
Hidden by snaking vines.


I jumped first
Into the cool crick
Still brown from last week’s rain.


You waded in slowly
With tentative steps,
Goosebumps up your arms.


We laid on our rock
While sun freckled our skin.
That warmth under our eyelids.












































Earthworms


We used to play pretend in Whole Foods, hide amongst the displays of avocados and leeks, and scare Mama into thinking we might touch the fish with the eyeballs still in them laying in freezer beds of shredded ice. We used to sit on the old yellow couch together, and I used to make you watch Harry Potter over and over even though you never had the patience to read the books and you didn’t like The Prisoner of Azkaban, but you went along with it just like you used to let me eat one of your chicken nuggets at dinner when you were still hungry. We used to sleep in the same bed because I was scared of burglars even though we live in the woods and our house still isn’t visible on Google Earth, and you would let me tell the kids at school that you would crawl in beside me at night, not the other way around. We used to dig in the wet mulch by the front porch back when it was painted green, not brown, looking for gold or diamonds or blue sapphires, like the earrings Daddy gave Mama for Christmas one year, and you would laugh at me when I squealed because I didn’t like getting dirt under my fingernails while you were covered in mud, head to toe, and we were always happy even when our treasure turned out to be earthworms. 


Now when I come home from school you look at me and shake your head because I don’t know that Jeremy is the boy who likes you who’s committed to Brown and DJ is the boy who likes you who’s committed to Stanford and you’re having trouble deciding between them. Now when I call you, you don’t pick up because you’re sleeping with either Jeremy who’s committed to Brown or DJ who’s committed to Stanford and I don’t know which one and when I try to ask later you ignore my question and demand we go to McDonald’s, and you never offer to share your fries even when I offer to pay. Now when I’m scared at night it’s because you don’t sleep in your bedroom next door to mine anymore even though Mom and Dad bought you a new mattress and bedframe because the old one reminded you of where you sat when you wrote the note I found under my bed two years ago, the one that made me cry and wish you’d kept the sadness inside you. Now when I step outside your car is gone so I stand on the brown porch and I close my eyes, imagining the feeling of wet mulch beneath my bare feet and dirt against my palms, and I wonder if you’re ever coming back.  




























Chopsticks
        She tells me, fingers sliding up and down the length of her plastic chopsticks. She tells me over appetizers of steamed dumplings and salted edamame, at a table beside the floor-to-ceiling windows of P. F. Chang’s in the Providence Place Mall. She tells me, her voice void of emotion, as if she isn’t fourteen and I’m not seventeen and we’re mature enough to talk about these things. 
        She tells me, “They had me in the psych ward.” 
        I shift my weight around on the wooden high-top seat. It is 60 degrees in December and I am uncomfortable. In a month I will be back here, sitting in a booth on the opposite side of the restaurant with my mom. She will be talking about how no one expected this from my sister; how no one ever thought she might be sad. It will be two weeks before my eighteenth birthday, when my dad will forget to call because he is too preoccupied with the hospital bills. My mom will be eating lettuce wraps and will tell me that they don’t call it the Psych Ward. It’s the Psychiatry Emergency Services, but my sister doesn’t know that.  
        I watch my sister reach for a dumpling, refusing to make eye contact. She asks me if I knew that the pediatrician comes to visit your hospital room when you wind up there. I tell her I didn’t. Three years later I will think of her when Professor Powers mentions doctor’s hospital visits during Law and Ethics (Tuesday/Thursday 3:00-4:15, BSLW110202). We will be studying the doctor-didn’t-save-his-patient’s-life-on-his-day-off problem (#1, page 44). I will be thinking I’m relieved that she’s finally okay. 
        She chews and swallows the dumpling before adding, “They’ve got me on Prozac.” 
I squeeze an edamame bean out of its pod and onto a side dish. I love you, I want to say, but I inhale the words and let them float down my esophagus into a sea of stomach bile where they will dissipate. Why is this happening?
        She stares at the plate and the bean. “Dad cried.” 
        I wonder if she knows that he called and told me the Sunday after it happened; that I was hanging out with my new college friends in my new college dorm when my phone started ringing and, at first, I didn’t want to pick up. I wonder if she knows that I couldn’t tell anyone because it was a Big Family Secret; that I hid in my room for three days and faked sick because I couldn’t look my future best friends in the eyes and say everything was okay. I wonder if she knows that I blame her for not knowing that people care; that I am guilty for feeling angry, but cannot stop. I wonder if she knows that I cried, too. 
        “It was horrible.”
        I squeeze a second bean out of the edamame pod. It rolls on to the side dish and then off the edge, on to the tabletop. She leans in towards me and flicks the stray on to the floor with one chopstick. I watch it bounce twice before rolling underneath the floorboard radiator. 
        In two weeks I will be cleaning out under my bed in my childhood room and will find the white binder with the printout of the lyrics to Billy Joel’s We Didn’t Start the Fire hole-punched and fitted into the rings. I will find the note on lined paper in the binder’s plastic sleeve, and I will know the handwriting is hers because it is crooked and refuses to stay between the lines. I will slide the note out carefully and see Dear Mom and Dad printed at the top. 
        I’m really sorry. I’ve tried to get help and be happy, but I don’t think I’m good at it and maybe I wasn’t meant to. Don’t forget that I love you guys. Hold Sophia and Elise tight for me. I’m really sorry. 
        She will have signed it but never have left it. I will read the words and wish I hadn’t. 
        She looks up at me, poking her chopsticks into the last dumpling on the plate in front of her. “I think I’ll be okay now.”
        I wonder if she knows that I don’t believe her, because even though no one will say the word I know exactly what almost happened. 
        “I think so too,” I lie. 
        “Chicken lo mien? Orange chicken?” 
        I turn to my left and see the teenage girl in a P. F. Chang’s apron holding two square white plates piled high with noodles and batter-covered meat. The girl places them on the table, and takes with her the empty dumpling plate and bowl of edamame pods. 
        My sister smiles halfheartedly at the chicken and sighs. I think about how badly wish I were that stray bean that she had knocked off the table, hiding away under the radiator. But I say nothing else, watching her as she eats, and wonder how long ago it was that she learned to use chopsticks. 












Nice Dream


For Sun Ra


Can you picture?
Black—blackest night
And forty quadrillion
megaton supercore
Hot—summer vacation
hot in there plus
hell-hot, but in space.
"Space is the place!”
One day we’ll get there
where there 500-foot trees of light
covering purple eclipse sky and
sickle-leaves of white lighting velvet panorama horizon,
speckled with supergiant gods blowing infinite sandbox
and halloween trunk which leaves no doubt
that the sublime is both beautiful and terrible
Over here trees of fire, too,
Keep walking see cities Atlantean buried beneath the lunar craters
From a time when people were better, stronger than today’s men


[All of this is enormously expensive and takes a toll on that familiar mother-son love
More than a year’s salary could ever cover for even a one-way trip with an hour’s worth of oxygen]


















One Day You Will Be Judged


My hypothetical mother
Welcomes me home after
A hard day at fifth grade.
We make scones and drink tea by the warm stove.


I go to my room and remove my backpack and coat
And complete math homework with a yellow pencil
And social studies with a blue pen,
And that’s all I have for the night.
I play board games against myself while mom makes dinner.


Dad comes home in his big red coat and furry hat,
And says, “Feel my hands,” and I do,
They are very cold because he was outside
Where it is beginning to snow lightly—
“But not enough for a snow day,” Mom says.


As I lie in bed tonight I think about how much of my life is gone.
I am eleven now and if I live to a hundred,
And eleven times nine is ninety-nine, which is close enough,
Then I’m already like a ninth done with my life.


I realize this and begin to sob uncontrollably,
And I plan to take refuge in the middle years
Like twenty or twenty six—
When I’m cool and wearing sunglasses.


Tomorrow I will wake up and be perhaps eighty-seven
Shopping at Safeway with the senior discount
And everyone will watch me slip and fall on milk
And break my hip and die.


























Meditation for Modernity


I must walk.
Cro-Magnon man walked and walked
With his club
And hadn’t a care in the world!


What a joy it is to be stupid and alone and hairy
And not own a shirt
And see my breath in the wasteland
And shit in the dark.


To have irrational arms and strange, pleasant dreams
About Norwegian princesses in caves.


Hushed husband and rude wife:
Somehow this is more pleasing than stewing the irradiated bed
And champing pixels all day in front of TV.


To have no thought of pockets or what to put in them!
To sing brown songs to mountain and green tree!
To run and climb on hard gray faces!
To worship the sun and ogle the moon!
And wake up unguilty and covered in blisters.










































Hypothetical Phallus Thrusts


Hypothetical phallus thrusts cleanly
Bleached anus over the vast horizon
As if miserable, seeing how badly
We fucked up the economy,
Which is somehow green,
My next-door neighbor, Tom, insists at sunrise,
Popping a Xanax with loud coffee,
Which is “his,” though someone dissimilar
Made it in Brazil, which starts with “Bra,” it occurs to me.


At work, three great stacks wait
Upon my desk for the car to get started
And take me there.
My car takes me everywhere—
It doesn’t care.
Both the car and I need to burn things
For energy and to get out of bed in the morning.
I burn Frosted Flakes and Pop Tarts!


















































Missaukee County Lumber Mill


It’s been years since
I’ve walked hot sand with splintered feet,
dragging driftwood to shore because
my grandfather told tales of loggers


and images of white pine rivers barreling eastward
towards the train tracks
made me feel responsible for the sunken marrow
of the lumberjacks’ makeshift bridge.


I think about how I wanted to be part of the mundane history.


And later when my sister tries to separate wood from flesh,
I can’t help but wince with sawdust skin and sap thick blood.


























































PULLING HAIR
A girl told me last night I need to stop pulling hair. She says it freaks people out. She says she wonders why I always do that. She says I need to understand what I look like. I try to tell her I don’t understand what I look like. She says I’m large. I tell her I feel sad. She tells me again, stop pulling hair. I try to tell her that it is not supposed to be mean but I don’t know what else to do with my hands. I try to tell her I like it when they pull my hair and make my neck fold back and my adams apple pushes forward like a pearl from an oyster, ready to be plucked and strung around a girl’s neck. I try to tell her that I don’t want to hurt anyone but I need them to hurt me I swear to god there’s a hundred thousand hairs coming out of my scalp and I need them all yanked up from me at the same time I want to feel like my brain is being slung out of my skullplace and brought into the world where she stands in dark air before me breathing white onto my collar bones and tells me to stop pulling hair.






















































MY BODY COMES CHEAP
My body comes cheap, my body comes free to
those who put in a little effort, a little flex in
their muscles, a little sweat on their temples.
That’s all I ask. My body comes cheap, my bod
comes free to anyone forcing my lips on their chest,
holding me against the door with curled fingers and
asking me questions I have to answer, I have to
answer you when you look at me like that and I’ll
come with you if you ask and my shirt unbuttons like
yours and I can feel that ice scream scoop that was
taken out of my chest the first time I had sex and left
me laughing at myself like a goddamn maniac
you can have my body it comes so cheap to anyone
who asks.


















































After Hurricane Frances / Before the Power Company


There’s another one coming—

I forgot to ask if you’re okay, I wonder

if you still slip into the sidewalk rivers, if

you shriek down our golf course hills, grass

stuck to your soles like eyelashes.


Frances was the middle child,

the brat. It knocked out electricity for a week

and we slept on bare mattresses, screen door

flapping, joyous. Shingles

like flecks of ash.


We shone and stuck to wooden floors

incandescent. Sweat out our salt

so that we didn’t cry for years, after.

Mud sidled up to our fingernails,

wind whistling, not Tchaikovsky, but something.

Simpler, sweeter.


Did you remember to bolt those panels, that

used to press flush against window panes, pressed

up against our lips and noses, searching

for a hint of light, for a sign

the storm had passed.


Maybe you have those electric shutters now.


Finally, there was a reprieve

through the skylight. We flashed our


teeth, fierce. Does your face still

turn toasted in the summer?


Can you still feel August clinging

to your skin?




























































four times death bumped me on the street
for Cesare Pavese


I. My mother finds me
in the shower and the water is
now cold and she screams for
my father, Nick
something’s wrong.

II. We buy three euro wine
drink under the Eiffel Tower
the way people did, before.
There's women wailing and Connor
yanks me down, instinct,
fear winds my throat like copper wire
We’re tugged into a strange apartment,
and we turn on the news and there
is a dead girl on the floor of
the cafe that isn't me and
we don't touch the
last bottle of wine.

III. It happens five feet
away in the pothole laden streets
of Guadalajara and if I press my fingers
the asphalt that crumbles like marzipan
I'd be able to touch it. To touch
the popping like ear drums
and policia brush a little bit
of him from my jeans and I vomit
on the pavement. I still can't hear
a car backfire without- 


IV. I don't remember this one—
my father, mouth pinched
around the word reckless. I'm
twelve and my temple feels sweet
and sticky, lungs rubbed raw like a Brillo
pad. I was diving with my eyes closed,
the salt water stung.
I'm not allowed to swim for the rest
of summer, which is fine—
the ocean sounds like my mother, screaming
for my father Nick, something’s wrong.






The Clinic

we’re hanging off your bed. you—longer lately, hair brushing at the carpet

me—thick tongued after your mother’s wine. you turn—I’m struck by how

eye contact is the same upside down. punch me in the stomach, you say.


we do that exchange girls do with their eyes—are you sure?

how far? you weren’t safe?— all at once. you crinkle me into a fist—

piano fingers, weak wristed, palms cut with thick fault lines.


please, you say. we stand and gravity does this thing to your eyes that nighttime

does to the neighbors lawns. in the aisle of a drugstore you wash it down

with diet desperation. we aren’t quite sure if there’s anything



to grieve that day, so we smart like fresh cuts at the sounds

of The Smiths on the way home, and I dig half moons into my palms

while I pretend you are only hiccupping from the soda.


when you do it for real, I stay tightlipped and unlicensed and you don’t

cry in the front seat like you did in ninth grade and I run my fingers through

my eyelashes like heart strings, mourning the things we should have mourned, then.






















Blood Pact
Scotty could count the number of times she had seen her mother cry on her left hand. Left, because that was the hand she had stuck blindly into a snapping turtle nest when she was just about ten years old. She was looking for the speckled eggs, that she would roll down the ashy pavement of her driveway like marbles. 
She came away without a pinky and an index, howling like a coyote. 
They made the trip to the hospital for that one, two towns over, and the doctor looked at her mother.
“Did you happen to get the fingers?” he said, brusque, as if fingers fell off as often as flower petals. “If they’ve been recovered, we can talk about reattachment.”
Her mother gave him a strange look.
“Honey, have you ever tried to stick your hand in a snapping turtle’s mouth?”
“No Ma’am,” he responded dutifully.
“Take my word for it—those fingers are good as gone.”
On the way home, Scotty was subjected to a miserable lecture and a ban from playing outside—even in the citrus grove—for the rest of the fall. It was an unusually cruel punishment. She’d even miss that week when the endless heat would finally break, and it would rain for days and days, and all the little grubs would poke their way out of the soil, ready to be collected in her little silver bucket.
“I just—” her mother sighed as she wound down. “What possessed you, Prescott?”
“I dunno,” Scotty muttered, peeved at the use of her full name. She wriggled the stumps of her fingers experimentally. She figured she could still climb.
“You can’t be so impulsive, okay?”
Something strange happened to her mother’s voice—it got all crinkly, like she wasn’t sucking in enough air— and Scotty looked up. Her eyes were red, as if she had smoked too many cigarettes and leaking, like the pipe in their kitchen, all over her skin.
“Mom,” she said, soft. “I’m sorry.”
That was the first time she had seen her mother cry. It was also the first time she realized her mother was strong—not strong like Scotty, she couldn’t climb high or run fast or anything—but she was strong in a different way. In a way that showed on her face.
***
The next time she cried, there were no turtles. Scotty had shot up several feet over the years. She felt stretched and gangly now, and when she ran her fingers across her face in the mirror that hung on the trailer’s bathroom door, her skin felt too thin. She felt foreign in her body in a way she never had before, with an acute awareness of the skin that hung too loose and the swell of her new breasts. Her father had stopped visiting since Scotty went and asked him for money for medicine. She got walloped for that one.
               “I told you to never go to that man,” her mother growled, low and throaty. It caused a little cough and Scotty imagined the white rot rooting itself in the back of her throat, winding in little silver webs down to her lungs. The side of her face smarted from her mother’s palm.
               “He’s my father,” Scotty said, outraged.
“Not in anyway that counts.” Her mother’s pride filtered through her teeth and infiltrated her voice. Scotty didn’t understand it. What does pride get you? She wanted to scream. A trailer in the middle of bum fuck nowhere? Some shitty trees? 
“He owes you!” she spat instead. Her mother recoiled visibly, and Scotty softened. “Can’t you see that he owes you?” 
She felt terrible guilt as her mother blinked fervently, swallowed several times in a concerted effort, and turned away towards the kitchenette. The trailer wasn’t conducive to them fighting. That was why Scotty spent her life outside, with no roof to press her down. She could scream and rave at the sky, and the rain would come. Somehow, that made it better.
               Her mother wrung a rag in the sink. When she finally turned around, her face was wet and pinched. She pressed the terry cloth against her daughter’s cheek.
               “Sweetheart, nobody owes nobody anything. Not here.”
Scotty had never been ashamed of her home. She’d never hated her town, not like some of the other kids did, never resented the fact that Conjunction had one grocery store and one church and miles of half dredged swampland that some developers had abandoned long ago. 
But this, the idea that nobody owed nobody, tasted sour. 
The way her mother said it, resigned and soft—soft meant sad—made her want to run and run until she took flight, until the afternoon rain storm picked her up and blew her somewhere else. Somewhere cool and quiet, where people paid their debts.
               Scotty’s mother was good at a lot of things. She was good at sewing—tiny little stitches in Scotty’s jeans, or smeared with Vaseline in her forehead. She could whip up a casserole with a can of creamed corn and odds and ends from the garden. She could coax a plant back to life with a little sunlight, a misting bottle, and sheer will.
               She was not good at being alone.
               So when her father stopped coming around, Scotty knew it was only a matter of time. She wasn’t stupid—she’d learned to be wary of men, with their scratchy voices and sharp smiles. She locked up everything—the ATM card, the checkbook, in a little cigar box that the dark skinned woman who sold vegetables next to Sun Groves gave her. 
        For your secrets, she told Scotty with a wink. Scotty had snorted, they won’t fit, but taken the box anyway.
When the next guy came around, she made herself scarce. She was extra mad that time, because she found a clump of her mother's’ thinning blond hair in the shower drain. Her mother should be resting. Not pulling this shit.
She walked all the way to the gas station, the last Quik Mart before the interstate. There was a pimply teenage boy manning the counter, who traced her with glassy eyes.
               “Whatcha looking for?” he drawled, and she glared. 
               “Nothing you’ve got.” 
She wove through the little aisles of chips and cigarettes, Slim Jims and nicotine gum, until she got to the back door. Behind it was a little cement patio scattered with white plastic chairs, where the owner, Sam, grilled up cubans. It was a Conjunction treasure-- Sam, and the cubans. He always greeted her the same:
               “Your mother know you’re here?”
She’d roll her eyes and say, cheeky, “I’m my own woman, Sam.”
He handed her a sandwich, dripping in grease and mayonnaise and briny pickle juice, and didn’t make her pay. She’d bring him by a Publix paper bag brimming with fruit later in the week. Scotty didn’t take charity. 
Sam had a wall of hanging shotguns out back and a penchant for hunting the pythons that made their way out of the Everglades.
“Invasive fucking snakes,” he would say, darkly. “I can smell them.” 
He was crazy, but he was also the smartest person she’d ever met. He knew all the Seminole stories; he told her all about the old outlaws, even said he’s tried Black Drink—the old hallucinatory drug. He’d always have a paperback tucked in his backpocket: instructional manuals, Westerns, anything.  He knew about everything that happened in and out of town. 
Her mother hated Sam.
Mostly, hated that Scotty spoke to him, and Scotty had learned to evade the subject. Her mother and Sam were distantly related, much like everyone in town, third cousins by marriage or something, and had grown up on the outskirts of each other’s circles. Sam, her mother said, was a drunk. And worse, he was a drunk with a shitton of guns. But Scotty had met drunks; she’d seen them smashing bottles and pissing at the edge of the orange grove. They seemed larger than life: louder, with jarring sharp movements and fumbling hands. Sam wasn’t like that. He worked his way through packs of cheap, golden beer, sure, but Sam was quiet and his hands shook and he wheezed when he laughed. If Sam was a drunk, he was the most harmless alcoholic in Conjunction.
She ate, and he told her a Seminole story. 
The Seminoles lived in Conjunction, back when the swamp ate up all the houses and the interstate, before it got cut back and tamed. They were all the outlaws, banished from their original tribes. They had to band together for survival, but so many wild minds in the oppressive heat often led to uncontrolled violence. All the stuff the best stories were made of. 
He told her about blood pacts, about how people used to make promises by slicing open their palms, pressing the wounds together. Then, they’d pour some of the blood onto the earth, to hold them both accountable. 
“It’s sacred,” he insisted and she listened, mouth full and eyes wide.
“Have you done one?” she asked. 
“Of course,” he said, voice grave. 
“Did you keep it?”
“Sure,” he grinned. “But he didn’t. That’s how I got this,” he said, and pointed at the silky white scar running across his forehead.
To Scotty, the most exciting thing about Sam wasn’t the scars and guns and stories. It was that he’s never left Conjunction in his life. 
“But why,” Scotty asked, around a mouthful of cured ham. “If you could go anywhere, live anywhere, why would you stay here?” 
Sam laughed, light like chimes. 
“But what if I leave, and the whole place isn’t here when I come back?” 
Scotty screwed up her nose. 
“That’s stupid,” she decided. “How could a whole town disappear?” 
“I dunno,” Sam said, and she noted that he was a little slurred. It was quiet, but it was noticeable, and it put her on edge.
“Sinkholes maybe. They take out whole cars on I-4 all the time. Some people say you don’t really know if anything exists forever until you leave it.”
“Who in the hell says that?” Scotty asked, disbelieving. She squinted, accusatory, at the growing collection of amber glass by his feet. 
“Books, I guess,” he said, unhelpfully. “If a tree falls in a forest and no one hears it, that kinda shit.” 
Scotty counted them; he’s on bottle number six, which means it’s getting late, probably after dinner, and she should walk on home and climb into her hammock and glare at the crescent moon. She wouldn’t want to go back in the trailer tonight, even if her mom’s new boyfriend was gone. She was always too upset to.The trailer was theirs, and she had the strangest inclination to open all the windows and let any trace of some stranger be carried away. 
“I won’t leave either,” she said, soft. “I promise.”
She dawdled with the grease stained wax paper. Sam was the smartest person she knew, and if he was drunk enough, he wouldn’t even remember the conversation.
“My mom is sick,” Scotty admitted, a little wobbly. She dug her nails into her upper thigh to gain control of her voice. 
“With what?”
She finally voices her suspicion. “I don’t know, but I think it’s white rot. Can people get that?”
Sam got the look he got when he told the old stories. Like something ancient and terrible was at work.
“What do I do?” she asked. 
“Get on home. White rot only gets the trees,” he said gruffly, and gathered up the bottles and discarded wax paper. “Tell your mama to see a doctor.” 
They both know she wouldn’t. People dying of white rot was a myth, mostly. Outsiders wouldn’t understand it, and her mother would chastise her for believing in the first place.
Scotty felt desperation rise like bile in her throat on the walk home. Her mind raced and her foot caught on pebbles in its desire to keep up. She went sprawling in the dirt and skinned her knee, instinctively popped her thumb in her mouth and swiped at the scrape. It tasted coppery and there was a familiar, almost comforting tang to it. 
She knew what she needed to do.
Instead of heading towards the citrus grove, she booked it towards the trailer, a flood of determination. When she got there, sweaty and catching up to her breath, there was a man smoking outside. 
“Evening,” he said around the filter of a cigarette. “You must be Prescott.” He had shaggy hair and wore a frayed flannel that it was too hot for, but his distinctive feature were his deep set eyes, dark and drowsy. 
She panted distastefully, fully aware she was being improper. 
“What’s it to you?”
He chuckled.
“You’re out pretty late,” he remarked, and it made her blood boil. Entitled prick. 
“You stopping through?” Scotty raised an eyebrow.
“On my way to Tallahassee,” he confirmed after another drag. 
“Well, don’t let me stop you,” she said, with mock-sweetness.  
“Your mother said you’re a spitfire.”
“She’s dying, you know.” She said it to scare him; no one wants to realize they fucked a dying woman. He shrugged.
“We’re all dying, aren’t we?” He looked unaffected, and she scowled at not being taken seriously. Screw him, she decided. She had a miracle to look for. She shot him one last nasty look and yanked open the trailer door. 
There were little tinkering noises coming from the bathroom, and then a retching that broke Scotty’s heart. The ache in her chest sharpened her resolve, and she went to the top drawer in the little kitchenette, where they kept odds and ends, and rifled through bills, spare keys, lighters before she scrabbled against what she was looking for.
She pocketed it, and headed for the swamp. 
She wove her way through the mangroves with practiced ease, slotting her body through the grass and reeds. Her sneakers grew damp, but she didn’t care. The terrain got marshier as she went, and the light began to all but fade out. Fear pricked her a little bit, sizzling on her skin as she went, deeper and deeper until she was knee deep in murky water. There were gators, sure. But there were also cottonmouths, copperheads, asian swamp eels and rumours of rogue pythons. Anything poisonous and unwanted seemed to make Conjunction their home. 
She was waist length when she finally decided to stop. It was fully dark and without the sloshing there were only the bats, clicking sweetly as they felt their way around. 
Scotty rolled up her left sleeve, her forearm effervescent against the marshy water. She figured that side of her was already marred. In her right hand, she fumbled with the Swiss Army her mother used as a can opener, resorting to pulling out the blade with the help of her teeth. 
“Please,” she whispered, into the stillness. “I’ll do anything. Just don’t let her die.”
She grit her teeth and sliced down her palm, pressing hard to compensate for the dullness. Her fingers spasmed in protest and she bit her lip to hold in a yelp.
The bats made their short, sharp sounds, and Scotty closed her fist, letting the blood drip into the swamp water. It felt like dark magic, and she shivered, suddenly aware of the ringing in her ears and the throbbing of her hand.
She felt ancient and terrible then, too. 


****






































                                                
Avila Beach Pier
                                                
Listless pillars
stagger under the weight
of a thousand bodies
walking a hundred weathered planks, 
alongside gangs of mangled gulls,
each balanced on a single crooked leg - 
weary sentries with jaded eyes.
                                                
Cancerous tar fills the cracks 
beneath the pier,
devouring decayed wood 
from the inside out.
In the heat it softens, 
snaking into the sand 
beneath my bare feet 
as I walk below.
                                                
When I’m long past that sprawling figure, 
the lanky posts and mismatched planks 
seem but a skeletal carcass
that emerged halfway from the sea 
before gasping its final breath -                                                
and in this expanse of rays unbroken
by paneled shade,
I find a withered​ piece of tar
that has been clinging to​ the bottom of my foot, 
collecting grains of sand. 


Liquidity
8:35 AM
 
A touch on the shoulder, like
good water pressure pushing me downF
into gelatin ground. Corpuscles and corpuscles
and the little bean in the back of my throat,
glowing: a hot snake rippling through my spine
to the loosened ground and I
sink. A touch on the shoulder, the back
of the neck, the back, the small of the back,
the thigh, the bend of the knee, the feet
and toes and ground. I drop like water
droplets, that bodily lack, that holy lack, liquified.
































red anemone
 
all
      this is how burning feels when your skin
peels off in sheaths of red with white underneath blue
             are
                        you america can you see Oh! i say
i haven’t been home since 1997 since i walked on
two feet since abba said No and ima said Please
far from home the things you hold onto don’t dare
hold on to you i’m baptized raw pink rank and
full of venom
                        refugeed
                                      and this red anemone
you picked and laid bare on a plate for me to bury
inside of my body like i could create a life here
is too bitter to eat Oh! and all i think is when and
                                       again
                                                 praying with the burnt
flesh of our bodies we waited wading through the oven
of war only to arrive with mouths full of moths
                                                                 here


                My grandma’s skin is brown and warm as she leans towards me, bread on her breathe and in her teeth, and tells me the secret to a happy life is four brown eggs cracked over a cast iron skillet. But that’s not all, that’s not all, that’s not all. Four brown eggs, she whispers warm in my ear with a rough hand on my cheek, and a hot chile pepper! She yells each ingredient like a revelation. Olive oil! Onion! Bell pepper! Garlic! Tomatoes! Cumin! Paprika! Salt! Pepper!
                Short and tired and broad she whirls around the kitchen with confidence like she’s built it with her own hands. My kitchen, always and with confidence, This is my kitchen and you’ll chop those tomatoes fine and toss them into a skillet to simmer uncovered for ten minutes - not nine, eight, seven, six.  My grandparents - Menachem and Leah - built this house themselves after they moved to Israel from North Africa during World War II. My Safta Leah teaches me to pronounce Shakshoukah so I can hear Tunis in each syllable. Shak-shoo-kah. Shakshoukah. Not Chak-choo-chah. A revelation. Kaparah aleich, she pats my cheeks with two hands and they sizzle under her touch. My Safta is sweaty and tired but flies about the kitchen like a trapeze artist from one end to the other. My Safta knows that she built this home with her own hands and she knows that the best breakfast in the whole wide world is shakshoukah ve lechem maleh. Eggs and toast with each additional ingredient a revelation in its own right:
Shemen zait ba machvat kodem. First, heat the oil in the skillet. Tosifi et ha pilpel ve ha batsal ve ha shoom. Add the onion and the peppers and the garlic. Tevashli. Cook for five minutes until soft. Achsav, agvania ve tavlinim. Add chopped tomatoes and spices and stir to combine. Tevashli ad she en maim. Let simmer until all liquid has evaporated. Tosifi beytsim. The secret to a happy life, she says, is four brown eggs cracked over a cast iron skillet. Titni la shevet. Let the eggs and tomatoes sit covered for five minutes. Tochli im lechem. Eat with toast.
I eat heartily of a breakfast I made with my Safta, though my hands are pale and less worn, less deserving, and I cannot pour the entirety of Tunisia, of Carthage, into a single meal like she can, in a kitchen that she built with her own hands. This short, broad, tired woman with lines on her face like a map. We eat in silence because there is nothing we need to say, because we are starving and grateful. Life is so simple, she says before we eat. Chaim sheli, chaim sheli. My life, my life. She points to me and to the food in front of us. I am her life and this food is her life. Past and future. And in the present, there are moments like this.






































this bed I have made but will never sleep in




I. 


I sipped wine mixed with cider from
a green-tinted glass I poured in the kitchen.
I kept leaving my phone on top of the fridge
and wanted to watch you again from the counter:
your steady hands, with which I never let you touch me
because they would lend me goosebumps
I mistook for coldness, much like
I mistook the low hum in my chest
for the sound of the air conditioner
when it defibrillated in.


II. 


He answered, you are the worst person in this room.
The wine reddened his mouth like the stain 
on my lap and his teeth made sharp little needle eyes 
threaded with strings he pricked through my lungs.
My hands unraveled the knots in my scarf
and transferred them to my hair when I stood
in his kitchen and knew I would never be the best 
and without knowing decided 
I will try my hardest 
to be the worst anyone has ever seen
or has ever had strung to their eyeteeth—
I will fold my knees and bring someone here
and let them stand where they can perceive
every button hole I leave.


III.


I don’t know what it is to love because
I have never run my fingers down someone’s 
hip except once, in the sweating dark 
with someone I did not know and have not since.


IV. 


A boy walked in. You are beautiful, 
he said, and clasped my hand. I wish I had not held on: 
but it is far easier to shear these strings myself 
than to hand you the scissors of my collapse. I must have
asked him a question because I found an empty answer 
in his lips, and a better one in the solidarity of the kitchen
wall at my back and the small hooks it lent cut strings.


V. 


I burnt my tongue on the breakfast I made 
for myself the next morning. After, I casually dropped
eggs to the floor as if they were hearts:
china thin and white and speckled with a lack of imperfection.
My toast was as dry as the tongue I lie with
alone again in the bed I have made but will never sleep in
where I twisted my neck while thinking of breakfast
and the empty seat across from me where you sat.
You said you hated vegetarians. 
I claimed you would not suit my palate. 


VI. 


The kitchen is white and chrome and clean
and gleams with citrus and salt. Lemon and iodine,
not at all salt tears, not from the cut onion
on the blue plastic board I scrubbed.
My tears, or maybe yours. I never heard.
I said too much too fast to listen. The sink runs and the steam
spreads on the mirror until it drips. Wet skin,
damp feet, and your smile, but it’s thin
and cold, like goosebumps you will now never touch me with,
like the way your ragged hair curls on your face
in the same way you tucked yourself against me,
every line of you soaked through, coiled tight
in ropey strands, on the ground in the sickly 
yellow wash of the parking garage 
I could not scrub clean with 
all of my citrus and salt.
________________


early fall exists: aftertaste for Ingen Christensen


If cannibalism were more prevalent
my body would taste of nostalgia


but so few are digesting me anymore,
so the world will never know nor will I.


The future is real like the air you breathe
and if you choose disbelief, know that


June nights exist in the North for a short
period when the sun never really sets


and aging seems to stop. When it comes 
time for us to turn on the lights I see


I’ve aged ten years and there’s still 
saltwater stuck in my mouth. 


























before the fire department comes
A piece of your dressing gown
Tore, seams distressed
Popping they all go at once


Call the doctor
the dress won’t sew itself
Before the fire department comes
 
I’ll take up arms
Kick the clock down the stairs
Purchase time until the magic is done:
 
Like a spider web vanishes
your silk
red gown
surrenders
 
Wear mine
In the mean time if you’re
Hungry in the fridge are cold plums
 
Until then
I’ll drown my book
And break my staff
 
If I am drunk on your body it’s because
In the distance there are sirens
Closing in on the fun.
 
“A Prayer to the Porcelain God”


I beseech you, my god
and you, unmoving, unmoved, gleam above me
forever unresponsive, but eternally receptive
I beg to pour my soul out
to be purified
to start anew
for I must lose myself to find myself
grant me rebirth, my god
I am not this sin of my flesh
and I implore you to help me elevate myself
from that which corrupts my being—
take away from me this day my daily bread
and lead me not into temptation.
I perform my rites of worship:
genuflection and introspection
I feel my faith rise up
a burning love for perfection
bless me, my god, for I have sinned
it’s been 23 hours since my last regression 
please save me from myself


































Untitled


Nervous teeth drag the color off your lips
As we stand in the snow 
In the winter’s early darkness.
To the yellow windows across the street 
We must make a ghostly scene,
Two figures idling 
On the sidewalk by the church.
There’s a prayer in your eyes but it dies 
Before your stare
Ever lands on the statue of Mary,
On the aging stone hands once clasped in faith
Now crumbling after years of weather.
It is November and everything is breaking:
The thin layer of ice beneath our feet
Splits into softer powder underneath,
Our voices crack, our hands
Shake in the pockets of winter jackets,
The leaves now nothing but
Sickly brown clinging
To wiry skeletal frames until
What’s left of the body lets go,
Fragile and fluttering into the chill.﻿Commute


Heads bob like buoys in 
the swell of bus suspension
while those standing cling 
with barnacle grip avoiding the drift
of a sudden current shift.
Placid faces sink towards
heavy shoulders and little anchors 
weigh down eyelids with visions
of waves and sun floating
across those dark lids.   
































































Trees and Undergrowth


After Vincent van Gogh


I.


Between layers of green, you wait. Fingers of leaves
grappled at you when you walked the path I painted.
Don’t trip on the century old branches. They read your 
mind, write messages in soil you walk over. 


II. 


I painted you in camouflage. Somewhere among splotches, 
sitting on a bark thrown, your amber eyes watch for me: a
prince of seventeen, handcuffed to a horse and housed 
within a name I race to escape from.   


My horse, a paintbrush and I, a prince. 


III.


I stroke fervorously to get to you. In the painting, night and
day are one: time a puddle I elongate with colored oils. Boughs
and branches grow and my body is now stained the yellow
of your eyes right before I told you I couldn’t stay. 


IV. 


I spell sorry in Pointillism and pray you can read that
kind of braille with your untrained eyes. Dark green is missing
and light green is sadness. Love is a two-dimensional canvas that 


lost our love behind a curtain of color.


V. 


Paint takes years to dry if you know what’s behind the colors and
the shifting shade of your auburn eyes is now lost in a forest. I
rock my body through that forest I painted when I forget how to 
tell time, and reach for the sword of the prince I was to you. 












People Don’t Mind


People don’t mind being used
   but they do when 
      they’re discarded.


Screams swallowed like the 
sound a cig makes when it’s
 flicked
 into a puddle. 
 Storms, 


rainwater on hot pavement,
                and other smells 
       that remind you of 


summer nights in bed, 
mosquitos suckling 
her neck sweat.


Memories draw blood,
                                      so stop
                                                     thinking
                                                                    and they’ll go away.












































Nocturnal


I’m allowed to tuck him in 
but I can’t stay the night 
so he spoons my figure 
protected by linen and down 
like when we still had sex 
with condoms before my HIV test. 


The living room lights are dimmed 
where his mom is pretending to sleep
on the couch where he blew me last week, 
where we drink coffee and eat Oreos. 


I close the door behind me 
and ring for the elevator, 
stepping inside the infinity 
of the mirrored walls. 
I breath on the glass and 
I can’t see my face in the fog.










































Rorschach Test


I remember the scratching of my two enormous suitcases on the uneven cobblestone, not yet realizing that I had been scammed out of 30 precious euros by a seedy cab driver on my way from the airport whose musty car had smelled of bad incense. He must have spotted me from the noise, saw my old gray sweatshirt, giant headphones, and wide, searching eyes against a backdrop of pristinely dressed Parisians and thought, easy pickings. On the drive over, the grey and white buildings and low-hanging clouds had made the outskirts of the city feel like a ghostly wonderland, and the faint blaring of distant sirens, the smell of pollution and city sounds now consumed my awareness. Bordering the Canal St. Martin, the neighborhood seemed timeless but for the people who turned the corners of the street, old couples with trench coats and canes, young mothers carrying bags of fresh groceries with their little ones dawdling behind them, teenagers clad in black, riding skateboards or dribbling soccer balls, shouting to their friends, “Allez, allez, Maxime!” 
A craggy brick facade lining the house was a gradient of pink and red, reaching skyward, covered in silver and black graffiti–my home for the next six months. The doorbell buzzed, and Nathalie answered, strawberry hair disheveled, with two warm kisses on my cheeks. She pulled a bright red case from the front pocket of her loose shirt, and offered me a cigarette, which I accepted, eager to impress with my nonchalance. Upstairs, my host brother and sister waited, freshly risen from a nap at mid-noon. I had been awake for 36 hours. The cheap, acidic coffee that had made my hands shake was starting to wane from my system, and the skin around my eyes was enrobed with darkness, but I was determined to keep my mind awake. Carla and Adrien, ivory-skinned and rail-thin with piercing green eyes, greeted me, their air of casual beauty immediately enchanting and intimidating. My suitcases made for an awkward ascent up the too-narrow stairwell, as if my American life were being squeezed into this tiny foreign chamber. 
Five weeks later, I stood in front of a Kandinsky paintings in the Musee Pompidou when I thought of my Dad for the first time since moving across the sea. Auf Spitzen, or Sur Les Points, is a Bauhaus abstract painting, completely non-representational, holding only geometric shapes and passionate bursts of colors. So far removed from anything recognizable, it makes me feel strangely at home. Perfect circles and adamantine lines intersect and push against each other in a violent struggle. Clouds of yellow, pink and grey float dreamily above the black outline of the most arrogant circle. A lonely orange square sits flatly on the parallel lines at the bottom of the composition. The colors are fighting, but this one remains neutral. I am reminded of the coloring books that my parents always kept our shelves stocked with in the early days of my childhood, before kindergarten and the end of the carefree days of ice cream and coloring and stomping in puddles. I would always refuse to color outside of the lines–even if I drew my own picture, everything always had its place. Only when I took up painting in school was I taught not to cry when the oranges bled into the purples, and that a picture could always be beautiful in the end, even if they seemed ugly for a moment.  
Some people pass by these paintings with squinted eyes and tilted heads, deep in thought, (Parisians tend to contemplate everything. They sit and hold their chins and nod, staring into the great void). Others turn on their heels to dismiss it. Art? I could have done that! To me, it’s a bit like an inkblot test. A therapist holds a card, and asks; “What do you see in the patterns? Is it the face of a man, or a mask, or a butterfly spreading its wings?” I wonder, do they ever ask if it really is an image at all, or if we only see what we want to see? I look to a series of shapes and lines and perceive a man of whom so many memories are intangible. His memory still comes in bits and pieces; a line, a circle, a splash of color, but never the whole composition. I remember his quiet, studious nature, his phlegmy laugh, and the way he always called me “Peanut.” I’m still afraid to feel too deeply, to see the whole picture for what it was. 
At four years old, my fingers banged along the ivory keys of the perpetually out-of-tune grand piano in our old house. Some gentle gargantuan creature who once held this bone would weep to know that it was then only warmed by the touch of tiny primate hands. A picture of my twin brother and I, two toddlers holding hands in a blustery field, accented the chipping black painted surface. A Steinway and Sons logo embossed across the front panel, and a “My First Recital” lesson book tucked away under the foldable bench, this was my first toy. He sits on the other side of the bench, expert fingers gliding over the keys in a rendition of some Mozart or Chopin or other, while I played Hot Cross Buns on the lowest keys. To this day, I’m not quite sure if he let me get away with such musical debauchery because he found it charming, or hilarious when my Mom covered her ears and begged me, doubled over in tears of laughter, to stop. Maybe we should have gotten that piano tuned. Maybe we should have gone to Paris the summer before I turned sixteen, not after. 
The drip of IV fluid, the torturous heaving of a chest tube, monitors beeping in time with his breaths, heart beats, and he is Patient #416 in the white, starchy bed at the end of the fourth floor hallway. I’m not ready to say that six-letter word yet, although we’ve known this was coming, ever since that night that we first realized he was sick. He stumbled out of the green living room, calling out for my Mom before collapsing like a solitary tree in a forest with a sound that shattered the earth. One fireman, then two, then a third barged into the small, green room as Thomas and I tried to support his sunken form. I remember my arms shaking as I lifted an unresponsive hand, screaming inaudibly in a desperate effort to get some semblance of a response. Silence. Waiting. More waiting later in a room made for waiting. These rooms became the bain of our existence as we sat there night after night skimming mindlessly through glossy, superficial magazines, trying to put our minds elsewhere and to remain sane to some miniscule degree. White walls bore witness. The smell of hand sanitizer permeated the stale air and sickened my stomach. Buzzing fluorescent lights cast harsh shadows on the nurses and orderlies with prescription drugs who paced in and out, until the quiet, small hours of the morning. I had always hated hospitals, but this one felt almost sinister. No natural light entered those waiting rooms, not even plants could survive in that environment, so how could people?  
My Dad had never believed in god, and despite my six years of Catholic education and stiff plaid skirts, I never really did either, (though not for lack of trying), but for whatever reason on this green earth I found myself often praying during that summer. If there is a single omniscient entity that could align the energies of the cosmos or assuage human suffering, I would have taken it, but I know that he would have only smiled, shook his head and told me, (as he often did), that I was just like my god-fearing grandmother, “Old Genevieve.”
At the end of my street was a message scrawled in graffiti;
Reviens sur terre – Come back to earth. 
I spent so much time with the art in at in the Pompidou, wandering from gallery to gallery, methodical yet aimless. Maybe I had been there for an hour, or four, when I wandered into the room of the Kandinskys, with the oblong, uncomfortable benches. Facing the art, I sketched the uncanny figures in my journal and remembered what kind of gravity had pulled me here to begin with. I remember the poster framed in our kitchen of the statues of Apollo and his horses in the garden of Versailles. I remember how our bookshelves were lined with stories of the French Revolution, essays and anthologies of Voltaire, Camus, and Sartre. I know I should have read them long ago, before the day I came home to find my Mom had donated most of them in a whirl of spring cleaning–or maybe it was in a moment of spontaneity, to purge the memories of some of the worst days. I visited the grand Library of St. Genevieve alone–the building's imposing yet unassuming exterior is a thin disguise, giving no hint at the sprawling bounty of wisdom inside. First editions with gilded pages would have sneered at the threadbare copies from our meager library. Perhaps I thought that I was looking for ways to escape everything that had tied me down back in Boston, but maybe it was really about learning to come back to those ties, only to find that they weren’t as constricting as I had thought, and were in fact just trying to hold me safe, like a seatbelt. 
I fell in love with this breathtaking, ancient, ridiculously expensive city that I had always dreamed of, surrounded by kindred spirits of a breed that I had not known before crossing the Atlantic Ocean: freelance artists, struggling musicians, actors, students of engineering, immigrants and locals; people who had become my friends. Huddled in our large, black coats, with scarves bundled up to our ears, we sat along the edge of the Seine with our bottles of the cheapest red wine we could find, singing and laughing, people-watching and catching stares from passersby, daring each other to sit closer to the edge. I waved to the spectators on the bateaux-mouches which crept along the surface of the dirty river like great, heavy ducks in the chilly February night air. Swirling the red liquid in my plastic cup, I inhaled the bitter, woodsy aroma before raising it to my lips, which had been parched from the tannins from the wine, and stained a deep, cherry red. I exhaled, my breath forming a mist that quickly disappeared, and for a moment, I allowed myself to forget.  
The colors still bleed through the lines, and I haven’t worked out if the ink blots on the pages I’ve been sketching form the face of a man, or an angel, or the ocean, or two skeletons dancing by the pale light of the moon. 
















































































Title IX Case 45978: Withdrawn


I just want to be stupid she says as she undresses
halfway, the strap of her tank top falling
over pale bruises on her arms and wrists,
soft purples and sad blues of yesterday’s
roughing painted like water-colored lilies on her 
faint skin.  She calls me at midnight. Madison,


 I did it again. 


I wonder if she sees his face on a crucifix, if her wine 
on Sundays is just a glassful of her own blood, the bitter 
red she licks from her wounds, the ones he’s caused. 
He thinks it tastes sweet. If her Hosanna isn’t meant 


for God or coin of unleavened bread but to some mal-
boy whose polo she folds alone in his room while he’s
in class or grabbing a bite, just to have a second with him.
Alone. 


He speaks with spit, poisonous and disguised


as ADD, OCD, dysgraphia, schizophrenia, manic 
depression, whatever diagnosis she believes
this time. This bruise. This tea bowl of tears 
that she will reheat in the kettle and sip once again,
or chug, or inject, whatever seeps into the bloodstream 


faster. I suggest AA, NA, CA, whatever letters can pull
her out of the pit. She says I’m done. She’s lost her appetite
but I’ve learned those words meant she’s hungry for more.
































House-warming Party of One


This body is a ranch house
not known for its coziness. 
Inside, I can hear everything


Noises like cries
are echoing within,
but my guests don’t notice.


Today I found the culprit
– a bird’s nest in the garage –
so I’m finally evicting them


The mom and her two speckled eggs
not enough for a birthday cake
or a breakfast I wouldn’t eat.


But tenants don’t have to feed their hosts
and they’re moving out anyway. 
________________


Fraud


I am one of them, and not. 
In a room full of people
        sophisticated, intelligent, capable
I am the odd man, quiet in a corner
Who listens to words 
incomprehensible 
Struggling to piece together a sentence
To match.
Ink bleeds through pages upon
Pages upon
Pages, scratch marks and fat blots of 
Black and blue and red and pink.
As I satisfy myself with one the moment passes
Never to return.


I can feel my participation grade dying.


Invidia hooks her vert nails into me as I stare and wonder
        how the hell can an accounting major
        do my job better than me?
Why I’m not speaking up
Letting my theories and visions breathe.
Instead they wither and suffocate while I smile.
What the hell is the point in thinking
if my thoughts find no release?
Why do I bother
To write and
To read
When I
        clearly cannot match them
never speak my mind?


I confine my analysis to the cage
Of academic essays, literary works
And leave the talk to the professionals while I
Pretend it doesn’t bother me 
When I tell them of my passions.
Ignore their reactions
        Wide eyes and slack jaws, tones of 
        Disbelief dotted with sarcasm and
        Pity
As they force a smile, say
“I’d never take you for an English major!”


Show me the work of Byron
And I will note the beauty
And despair of an affair come to pass
        Though only in my mind.
Share your work with me.
I will fall silent in awe,
Enraptured by the grace of written word
And images that pull tears from my stubborn eyes.
Ask me,
And you will find a feeble fool
Frightened and tense, tongue twisted—
All I want to say dies on my lips
Becomes a tangled jumble of nonsense
as I fear being found out
        what to say of the rhyme or
        rhythm or syntax
        what do they mean
So instead I offer a sheepish grin and say
“That was nice.”
The disappointment in your eyes is matched only
by the pink tinge of my cheeks that screams
        why can’t I get this right?!
Of embarrassment, regret, frustration,
Loathing more bitter than the taste of coffee,
Burnt beans on my twisted tongue.


I am a fraud among my peers.
Lost, scrambling for answers that come
So easily to them
        why not for me?
Too afraid to let them know
to let them feel the tremble of my heart or
the way my thoughts blow
scattered on the wind
Never complete, always fractured, incoherent and
insensible.
Instead I wait in silence with a synthetic smile
and
        when at last it’s over
retreat into the world my mind has made
Encapsulated within the pages
of sticky notes and sketchbooks,
Notepads and journals
Where I am the master
        or at least I think I am?
and where my pen screams louder
than I could ever hope to be.         
        












POEM ABOUT HIM BEING PERFECT AND ME BEING AFRAID 2.0


i'm thinking about


ice   cubes               m e l t i n g
does          it         start       with 
the       air       around     them? 
making       particles        move 
fasterandfasteruntiltheycan’t 
keep    up    so    water     drips 


d
o
w
n


licking neighboring 
planes            ttttttil
tttttongues    freeze 
up                    again
is this  why  they  get 
stuck            together?
the palpable frigidity 
keeping                   them 
solid        and        sturdy
like the opposite of why
we huddle together  for 
warmth      and        hug
               hard   at            funerals 
or   why   i      lean                 to  you 
every time  i    get     like           this  
every           time  i       start          to 
evaporate      into                       tiny 
molecules into  something viscous
and      volatile     and        a f r a i d 




i’m searching for the  s p a c e  between
too         hot         and         too           cold 
where you can hold me in  bed at night 
without  me     wanting    to             peel
my                 own           skin               off 




what i'm asking is: what happens when i get         so 
shaky        so    s c a t t e r e d  so  vaporous         and                         small  that you can't hold me together anymore


do we both crack?                                 
or do i just melt away




The Langlois Bridge at Arles


My face looks like an almond in the Rhone: eyes pulled tall
and cheeks dug out to shadowed holes. It’s water pure
* unpolluted. 
        The river flows down to the Camargue,
winding between gallops of horses still grown wild. 


Mère said they built the bridge for the sky, so it wouldn’t be 
so hard to reach. Père said they built it for the boats, 
so they had somewhere to go.


                               If I squint my eyes, the brick 
reminds me of the Romans: genius constructs of a Coliseum
no longer used for its intended purposes. 


                                        My hands 
cup the water: fingers skinny and skin stretched thin over 
bone that grew too long. 
                        Piano hands. Painter hands.


But Mère raised me with fields as my pillows, seeds to sow.
My hands are no longer used for their intended purposes. So 
I tuck my fingers in, nails biting into palm, and scoop up


the strange reflection looking at me. 












































The Yellow House 


I.
April, 1888


Spring was the rented rooms of a yellow house
the size of my heart. Two bedrooms on ground
floor - a workshop and kitchen upstairs. Four
chambers.
         The sun got hotter and I painted it. 
Ribbons of rays I wished would shine into 
me. Run through me. Twist around organs 
and the dark-wolf thoughts of the night. 


Make me yellow, too. 


II.
October, 1888


Fall climbed in at night through open 
Shutters - so did He. Man with artist 
hands. He saw the sky as a cracked
croissant, melted butted when Dusk
came. 
        Nine weeks and He was my 
pirate. Pillaged the apartment now 
beating with the two of us. Paid rent in
late nights we hid from Arles: his hands
creating a new picture of the body I used 
to be. Acrylic accusations. 


III.
June, 1889


He is a dark wolf that sleeps in my heart,
sleeps in the guest room I gave him. 
He paints me into stillness - living inside 
my heart. Bedroom arteries pulsing.




IV.
December, 1889


The Sun made me sell the Yellow House.
It leaked its buttery golden hues into the night
sky. He is the Yellow House, made it so I could 
no longer paint the stars. I’m not his, I’m not


yellow. 








Magdalene 


I. 
In the middle of many 
ages, of brothers drunk 
on blood of the martyred, 
books in hand, borrowed shoes, 


“There were so many of us then,” 
you’ve almost forgotten their names, but 
I can see their shadow in your eyes, 
each taunt on your lips. If only  


one could turn back ignorance, rewind 
the dial with the stream in its path. 
But you’ve stopped seeing yourself


and started seeing them in the morning. 
Their eyes are mine, too much 
for you, you don’t want to remember 
all lost so you could gain, the rocks 


thrown by guards at the border, 
a young girl shaking past men 
sworn to protect anyone but her, 


anyone born centimeters north 
of battery separating country 


from itself, sibling         sibling.  
Where do you go?  


II. 
During the weeks after you died, I take my place on the train 
amongst siblings I know only from the hunched shape they make 
over their phones. A congregation of sorts, we sway to the god 
of rim and rubber. You would’ve hated him. I remember 


my mother said you beat your children with rosary beads. 
That’s why none take the Eucharist on their tongues anymore. It is February, 
and each naked tree that rushes past my window reminds me of you, 
when you hugged me I could feel the hollow of your body. 


That’s why you fell, I shivered from the wind
that ran past. I want to say you are watching over me, 
through the eyes of your china figurines. But I know you 


aren’t there. Where does a body go 
when it isn’t a body anymore? At night I pray 
and your voice sings out. 


III. 
Days like this, when I’m not sure  
whether to walk among fishermen 
or tax collectors, zealots or tradesmen–I wonder 
if you bowed to wash their feet in the street. Your hair turned 


their psalms in prayer. I wish I could pick up 
the phone and call you, pull each cord 
closer for comfort. I ask how to make scones. 


IV. 
We can cross the country now 
in record time. There are no guards, 


no passports, no car bombs, just how you dreamed
during The Troubles. Your brothers live 


next to freed captors, their ashes scattered 
in Bonnahill and Belleek.         If that didn’t mean giving up heaven. 
________________


Manner, Männer


I remember the soft, 
waffery, hazelnutty, chocolatey 
crunch of my first Manner cookies, 
given to me and my sister as we kneeled 
outside the local mountainside church 
where maybe seven years later my cousin would be baptized, and I 
remember the cold wet air against my heavily jacketed frame, 
all of which I would think about 
from my grandparents' breakfast room several years later 
as I tried at 13 to be nostalgic 
but the cookies got caught in the poke of my braces wire 
and turned to cement inside my bloody cheek, 
and I'd remember one memory,
the first, 
through the lens of the second and both 
through the third when 
I was handed a square, pink package of Manner a month ago in Vienna, 
by a kind blue eyed George 
with a fake British accent 
and insecurity too vast for his small stature, 
a year younger than me
and saddled with the absolute biggest crush, 
and I'd think of him and the braces and the church and my grandmother 
who first introduced me to the cookies on that rainy late afternoon, 
as I ate the pack that George gave me 
with a different boy 
by the pool a few days later, 
before I fell asleep 
beside him under the sun. 



































Surfaces


Like the old wooden table 
worn smooth with years of use
I have visited you, decorated you, 
laughed over you, leaned on you, 
ran my hand over the nicks and grooves of you.
I have overlooked you, I have needed you, 
I have draped my weight upon you. 
Like the table, you stood solid. 
Dependable, indifferent. 


I should break you into firewood, 
sell you for something glass. 
Transparency is modern, 
even if it leaves fingerprints like reminders
and comes smooth from factory, 
not memory. 


I could buy a plastic folding 
and have it sit rickety,
hollow when knocked, 
where the old oakwood left
imprints on the pretty carpet. 
I could want you cheap, 
nothing to consider or care for,
easy to clean, to fix, 
to stash away and bring out for company, 
to discard.  


But maybe I'll scrap the table altogether, 
sit on the floor unsupported,
in the too-empty 
defamiliarized space; 
The room will look bigger
and from the carpet the windows will be taller, 
brighter, and viewed from below they will show only the sky. 
I'll pretend you were never there, 
try not to lean back 
absent minded, absent table leg I'll keep leaning
until my back rests on the carpet 
and I look at the chairs, who look
at each other expectant, crowded 
yet purposeless and incomplete. 


The carpet is softer than my solid, lovely
wooden table, more intriguing to run my fingers through, 
willing to support my frame
as my gaze, 
unencumbered by the absent table's dark underbelly
and tangled mess of legs, 
floats up to the sunlit ceiling. 


Blood Test


Blue Button
It was a routine blood test. Results were negative. She spends the next night writhing under pale pink, sweat-soaked, polyester sheets. Beads of perfumed perspiration drip trails and tributaries down her damp skin. A sharp, pointed pain shoots through the crook of her arm between forearm and bicep, lurching her awake. She brushes her fingers over the spot, feeling a distinct, cold swelling. Frantically, she fumbles for the light switch and sits up with a start. Her mouth gapes in horror as she watches what appears to be an iridescent blue button the size of a dime fight its way to the surface of her skin. She swallows a panicked, garbled scream, certain she must be dreaming, delirious with fever. Covering her eyes, she peaks cautiously through partitioned fingers, holding her jagged breath. It’s still there.  A deep, hot jolt of fear courses through her veins like molten lava. Thoughts swirl in her mind, a cacophonous frenzy, clamoring over and crashing into one another, each vying for attention. She forces herself to take a deep breath, but it comes out shaky and she can’t steady it. Fingers twitching, itching to push the button, yet she refrains. She reflects on yesterday, yearning for clues, anything to latch onto. The quick, white swish of fresh ironed lab coat, the melodic clicking and scribbling of felt-tipped pen on clip board, the hushed tone and quiet arguing outside her hospital room. Too terrified to bend her arm lest the button get pressed, heart beating in rhythm with the swift hooves of a racehorse, she finishes the night with eyes stapled wide open. 


Pressed
She felt her veins expand to heavy tubes through her once sun-soaked skin, now a translucent milky white. They pulsate with her heart, a steady thrum like the beat of an ominous marching band, processing into darkness. The blue tubes snake through her body and emit a dull glow, muted by clusters of cells. Blood swirls through them, like water through an enclosed amusement park slide. She can almost hear it sloshing through her. The urge to cut herself open and investigate what’s inside consumes her. 
















This is Growing Up
 
Il capte rien           a body moves past
in plastic             that’s the way it always is,
isn’t it live a full life  unfilled
life           die vacuum sealed as the microwave
dinners on mom’s busy nights             wheeled
and forgotten eyes stare back in the dark         the marbles
of frozen fish in the freezer section
at Costco            I loved that section as a child
poked my pointer finger through the plastic
felt the scales  fingered the spine          served best
over the grill   burnt embers break
breath over coal             whisper in my ears         spark
holes in my sleeves         singe my hair that chemical
smell   Formaldehyde                in seventh grade I learned to slice
open a frog and count the eggs inside             millions of pearls
gray as smoke clamored over the body
like looking at my own in the mirror
of the locker room         the teachers removed
it              the girls took too long to get dressed
after gym class                C’est la faute de ma mere
Merde   shit in French
but more beautiful         C’est vrai, non?
































CANDY NECKLACE.


I am
sock-jawed
strong, strung
through candy
rings, each one
bitten and
sucked loose,
spit dribbles on
the neck of the
day. I am depleted,
my raw wire making
tiny squiggles against
sweet, wet skin.














































In the Early Hours of Saturday Morning 


“Youth is golden
and eternal if we embrace it.”

Was scrawled hastily,
yet not entirely
insincerely,
at the bottom 
of a gas bill
pinned to the fridge,
as was the custom,
when only one among us was to take on the evening,
riding the wave of dispelled inhibition,
And it made me smile as I wrote it.
And it made them smile as they read it.




































































The Cynic on Art


I'm burning your poem.
There. I said it.
I'm burning your poem.
Most people would think it too...
impolite.
Or they would be entirely too busy
to go so far
to verify, to rectify
this abomination of a beloved art.
They would say,
“Jesus christ in a sidecar! How could you?
Why would you even--
To jot down some poorly punctuated
over-pretentious
quotable nothings on a napkin
and pepper this prestigious, preposterous,
paragraph with ponderous, putrid pastiche!
These self-obsessed black and white photos
are killing me!”
Yet they do nothing.
But not I—no, not I
I am a crusader
and like any warrior for the greater--
nay, greatest—good I will do
what no other would dare.
I'm burning your poem.
You can't write.
Stop fooling yourself.
This is absolute garbage.
Get out of my office.
And have a lovely day.  






























Confectioner’s Remorse


poprocks™️ in lungs
can have this effect
this –can’t breathe,
bee stings, and
scraped knees within–


one glance at nostalgia
peels open my throat,
pours in a new pack,
and blows me a kiss
while I suffocate in sugar
________________


If Puberty Packed Lunches


grape stems like skeletons
fruits plucked off
by eager hands and lips


popped into mouths and
rolled around on youthful tongues
before being crushed


to squirt seeds so small and meaningless
they could be old hopes
or wet dreams
________________


Reveille
 
The blue anxiety of an unfarmed park
has us asking what the day will bring.
We are grounded, here, with our neighbors
tethered to leashes of spiteful dogs.
Heedless, they tangle us, but we do not
panic at our mingled compasses. We consent
to the people of this trafficked playground,
if only for an hour, until we respond to
the summons of unbreathable towers,
tightening collars, marshes of the governed – 
that silver heartbreak, where prospectors travel
far from home for promised riches.
Bully nation, this is, but we submit,
vow to serve it through decades of
disease to cultivate a glass recovery.
But here, in this raw sunshine, where we lap
at the groundwater that’s never tasted cement,
we clutch our coffee and obey our dogs
barking at the guard across the street unlocking the DMV.












































DSM 5


PART I


1. Inflated self-esteem or grandiosity.
Anyone would be lucky to have me 
or to hold me 
or to fuck me
or to love me. 
                I am my own God.


2. Decreased need for sleep (e.g., feels rested after only 3 hours of sleep).
I haven’t slept more than 17 hours during the past 4 nights,
but I still don’t feel tired. 
My legs are starting to ache from standing, 
but I still don’t sit down. 


3. More talkative than usual or pressure to keep talking.
Hey stranger, I know I’ve avoided you the past 2 months but I was wondering 
                How is your sister doing?
                Is your dad still yelling?
                I think part of me still loves you. 
                        Sorry, that was weird. 


4. Flight of ideas or subjective experience that thoughts are racing.
Did I remember to turn the light off?
I need to water my plants but I need to send this letter more. 
I don’t think I can shower, it’s always too hot. 
Was the light ever even on? Where’s the closest mailbox?


5. Distractibility (i.e., attention too easily drawn to unimportant or irrelevant external stimuli), as reported or observed.
The same blank screen has been open for the past 2 hours.
I have spent the last 45 minutes figuring out what time it is in Bangkok. 
You love Thai food. I adore the sound of your skin. 
The screen is still staring at me and all I can do is stare back. 
It’s a contest. 


6. Increase in goal-directed activity (either socially, at work or school, or sexually) or psychomotor agitation.
Picking until I see the color red. Peeling when it turns brown. 
I planned lunch with 3 people this week for the first time ever. 
The library is my new dormitory. Maybe this time I’ll get A’s. 
I’m chasing that 4.0 GPA but it runs to your bedroom and I lock the door. 


7. Excessive involvement in activities that have a high potential for painful consequences (e.g., engaging in unrestrained buying sprees, sexual indiscretions, or foolish business investments).
Touch me like you know me. 
Touch me like you know me. 
Touch me like you know me.
Let’s pretend this is love. 






PART II


1. Depressed mood most of the day, nearly every day.
        All encompassing, heavy, suffocating. 
Vengeful: shallow and hollow. 
I want nothing more than to sink in this moment.
My body floats at the surface and I wait for waves 
to fill my lungs. I inhale. I cough it out. 


2. Markedly diminished interest or pleasure in all, or almost all, activities, nearly every day.
I’m sorry that I can’t get ready for you and that it hurts me, 
and that even when you’re going down, I’m still up in my head. 
I just don’t like it right now and I know that’s weird for you.
I hope you can understand that it’s me and not you. 
                         I’m sorry, okay?


3. Significant weight loss when not dieting or weight gain. 
They told me that I don’t look like myself.
I can’t see changes if I don’t look in the mirror. 
I haven’t brushed my hair for three days. 
I suppose I forgot to eat too.  


4. Insomnia or hypersomnia nearly every day.
I sleep more than 17 hours during day,
only getting up to go to class and to eat one meal. 
I’m falling asleep in the library. 
I never stop feeling tired. 


5. Psychomotor agitation or retardation nearly every day 
        Legs are moving up and down, down and up,
        up and down. The table is chattering. 
        Hands are shaking left and right, right and left, 
        left and right. The cup of coffee is vibrating. 


6. Feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt nearly every day. 
I buried my worries in bruises and bed sheets.
It doesn’t wash off in the shower. 
No one this filthy is worth anything.
I did this to myself. I deserved it. 
All of it. 


7. Recurrent thoughts of death, recurrent suicidal ideation, a suicide attempt, or a specific plan for committing suicide.
The thumbtacks pressed into my palms are 
painting new veins down the side of my arms.  
I’ve thought about it a lot, you know? 
My suicide notes always turn into love letters. 






















Origami


It is time to pass the crowded-subway
test, a day I have been trained for
since I was a five-year-old bent
on growing up. Today I am 
to prove myself a woman 
learned in the art of 
origami: I fold 
myself down 
eight times 
into a
Line.










































































Bridges


I’m still trying to learn to keep track of time 
as I coax my mother’s lemon-stained violin, 
dustily tuned a quarter-tone sharp,
to narrate the mead-drunken wedding 
of a peasant, a farmer who will soon fall 
into the swirls of the River Vltava. 


When I first crossed over the Vltava,
née Moldau, I was searching for a TYME
machine, which is what I call it when I fall
back into old accents. Two girls played the violin
and a couple fled from their wedding
with something old, something new, something sharp,


like my earliest memory: my mother’s voice sharp
in a hotel by the river, not the Vltava
then but the Mississippi. I was at my first wedding
with bows in my hair, blowing bubbles of time
while Pachelbel’s Canon trickled from a violin.
I saw it was elegant and dull to fall


in love, and I couldn’t wait for fall
and Canada geese. I’d watch the sharp
V wing by and think about violets and violins
and, had I known of it then, the Vltava. 
Since that day, I have been saving my time
to deposit in a hope chest for the wedding


I’d rather not have, a wedding
full of family, friends, and people who fall
in between. I check the time
again and it’s seven-thirty sharp
so I have fifteen more minutes on the Vltava,
riding the crests and the rests on my violin.


I have never noticed how my thinnest violin
string glints silver-white like a wedding
band or the sun on the Vltava.
I have a dozen companions to fall
back upon, so I let F-sharp
go and breathe in. Then it is time


to wipe my violin clean and let a bow hair fall,
too yellow for a wedding veil, too sharp
for a cat to eat. The Vltava will call to me another time.






From Our Family to Yours


It perches on the undusted mantelpiece, a smiling family 
about to take off, poised to propel itself into the living 
room’s most frequented airway but choosing instead 
to linger because the view from anticipation 
is guaranteed to surpass what comes next
(a turbulent descent, as close to life
as photograph can come).


Somehow the glossy rectangle has remained 
in place, leaning against outmoded wallpaper,
through three seasons, seven months,
two birthday parties, one near-divorce,
never calling attention to itself or slipping 
into the hairline obscurity between wall and mantel,
though even the showpiece, the framed 
family portrait taken by a real photographer, 
has tipped over more than once,
to be rescued from the ignominy
of the floor, its glass still intact.
 
Up there, Season’s Greetings accompany a clipart Christmas 
tree and an equally-large Messiah, infant no longer, 
a dutiful citation of the origin of this ritual of distributing 
benevolent tidings via Walgreens photo cards 
and preprinted labels. The pixelated Christ 
wears an expression of equanimity 
and makes no mention of past failures 
to reciprocate greeting-card goodwill—
because he has forgiven or because he will not.


Among the December armada, this card was unremarkable
and still is, but for the oddity of standing alone,
like one of its five posed figures, many years from now, 
on her own July mantelpiece,
wearing a hat that no longer matches
and gazing outward, unmoving.














Dream Poem
(a Pantoum)


I fall headlong into darkness,
My watch ticks too fast.
I stand at the top of the stairs
and cry into my teddy bear.


My watch ticks too fast.
Nonno tends to the grill.
I cry into my teddy bear
while Nonna toils over stove.


Nonno tends to the grill
as I stand up in my pajamas.
Nonna toils over the stove
at the bottom of the stairs.


I stand up in my pajamas,
listen to the phone call
at the bottom of the stairs—
Yes, this is she.


I listen to the phone call.
Two whole fish fry, scales and eyes crackling.
Yes, this is she.
Skin sizzles, roasted peppers and eggplant.


Two whole fish fry, scales and eyes crackling.
In my dreams, I tumble toward darkness
and skin sizzles, roasted peppers and eggplant.
Behind me, the lights go out.

In my dreams, I tumble toward darkness,
The couch with leather, peeling skin sits empty
Behind me, the lights go out.
A half-finished game of solitaire sits on the table.


The couch with leather, peeling skin sits empty.
I never hit the ground.
A half-finished game of solitaire sits on the table.
Nonna gasps.


I never hit the ground.
I stand at the top of the stairs.
Nonna gasps.
I fall headlong into darkness.﻿Chaos Theory


The universe was yawning.
One shift grew an endless gap,
like points X and Y diverging,
chaos born from our mishap.


One shift grew an endless gap.
We watched a hurricane of butterflies—
Chaos, born from our mishap.
They swirled, and took to the skies.


We birthed a hurricane of butterflies,        
a peculiar and prismatic aberration.
They swirled. They took over the skies
until correlation became causation.


Triangulate our prismatic aberration
to calculate the mass of a massive waste.
Now correlation becomes causation.
Density—or destiny—is braced.


Calculate the mass of a massive waste.
With points X and Y diverging
destiny—or density—is braced.
Elsewhere, the universe is yawning.










The Sky Between Us


Strings released, we 
drifted—sometimes 
up. My thoughts charted 
the course of how to live like 
the last plastic balloons. High 


and sipping on ozone, 
the dreams between my ears 
popped. I almost missed 
the moment my skin cells 
grew titanium plates.


The runway of the world 
opened wide once I
moved in rocketing bursts. I’m
so dizzy exploring 
the sky between us


because these eruption thoughts 
spend like fuel. The tang 
reminds me spaceships 
don’t look down, missing 
all the air they used to breathe.












Water Works: Lessons from Waitressing 


My boss said I was all set 
to be a writer 
because I am just so goddamn 
emotional. And I thought, 
Fuck. Not another man 
who knows he knows the flavor 
of my thoughts.


He said: Learn to have an arrogance
about yourself. But arrogant girls 
are just bitches 
and all bitches get 
are table scraps. So after I cried 
in a backroom bathroom 
I went back to hand washing
dishes. He asked if I was fine 
and I said I was fine even though 
I wanted to tell him he needed
to install a dishwasher. 


He said: Let’s see who makes more 
tips tonight—guys
or girls. And I realized 
everyone was ready
to either chew 
me out or spit me out. 


He said: To be a writer, first 
you’ll need to get lost. So, 
that night, after
a waiter shattered another 
Sabayon fishbowl, I watched
eighty dollars swirling 
like a pipe dream. My skull
went with it.


I said: Where is my check. When
will you have it. I hounded him 
for weeks. Then, 
when he handed me regurgitated 
ATM bills, I didn’t 
pretend a thing. I was too busy
drinking down every dime.
To the last drop.






























Gale

Look at me! 
shouts the wind
indignant at my absent air.

For an hour,
that petulant boy
has disturbed my sitting, my reading:

flipping my pages,
flapping my coat,
whipping the heat from my hands.

I press the book down, resolute,
ignore the waves he paints across 
the roiling water, his rhyme in the leaves.

Persistent, he blows 
square in my face, he slaps my cheek,
tears up my eyes, shrieks right into my frosted ears—

Look at me! 
What book in this world 
could be so important?




































I never wondered why


He walked slow, with heavy steps
And swaying movements.
His hands always dry and scarred, digging into the inside of his palm.
He moved with stiff, but messy motions
That made the keys tied to his belt loop ring as they hit against each other.
He stirred the dirt beneath his feet.
The dirt stuck in the creases of the bottom of his broken shoes;
The rubber ripped off the leather almost completely.
His one shoelace on his right shoe was always frayed.
He always had dark skin by his swollen eyes,
Swollen like he'd been crying,
Like he slept with heavy stones blocking the light from his eyes.
He smelled of stale liquor.
Liquor and old, cigarette smoke that never faded away.
I could've sworn he'd bathed in it every day.
But never did I ask him why,
Never did I even have the thought to.
Not until I saw him that one morning
Standing in the field outside my home room window.
He just fell back like he thought the wind would catch him.
His eyes caught mine for an instant as he flew towards the ground,
His hair lifted from the perspiring skin it clung to.
His lips parted like he was in shock,
But he in no way regretted what he'd done.
I was the only one who saw, but yet I didn't say a word.
I couldn't.
I just looked down at my pale, shaking hands,
With my nails deep in my skin,
Right at the moment before I heard the sickening, muted thud
Of his head cracking on stone.
I kept hearing it in my head, I still do.
His fallen hand, just in sight above the sill of the window,
Turned cold.
I saw his hand turn cold and blue and harden like plaster on wood
And I felt the need to grab it and shake it back to life.
But I knew it wouldn't help.
He remains still and I remain quiet.










Avian Aversion 


A burnt orange breasted, almost charred 
feathered foe 
with inky black plumes jutting out of skull
head and hind 
presents a looming essence.  
Head cocked, eyes peer with sunken adjustment, 
teetering on his craggy perch—
hackles raise, jagged beak and jaw unhinge to expel
a mucus-coagulating screech
     pumps molten horror. 


































































A Mother’s Love


 Ginny lit another cigarette, “This is your goddamn fault”, she said with one hand on the wheel. Fallen ash coated her pink bathrobe. Ray stared out the window. His wife’s words poured over him inserting themselves in to every wrinkle and fold of skin. He did not answer. She let out a deep exhale that went long after all the smoke was gone from her lungs. The screeching cries of their daughter were coming from the bed of the truck. Each new shriek slithered up the back of Ginny’s spine before the piercing sound was suddenly unleashed in her ears. She stared ahead at the vast desolation. Every once and a while their daughter would slam into the side of the bed, sending a heavy reverberating thud to the bench seat in the front. Nothing but barren darkness existed on either side of the road, everything swallowed into it, except for the fluorescently over-lit gas station they just passed.
        As they came in to town, they drove along the single lane road that ran through the center. Every establishment had large plate glass windows that were backed by a few dimmed lightbulbs. They lived only a few miles away from the center, and were glad for this to all be over soon. Ginny winced at the thought of having someone they knew see them driving around with their daughter screaming and bouncing around in the back of the truck. The town was small enough that word got around quick. For those who saw whatever incident was the topic, they could technically assert that they were an eyewitness, then whatever exaggerated lies they spewed were accepted eagerly, without question.
“I don’t know what to do with her anymore”, Ginny said, “I can’t keep going through this with her”. By the time they reached their house the screams had stopped. Next to their daughter’s head was a pile of vomit. Ray picked her up and hoisted her over his shoulder, brought her into the house and laid her down on the couch. Ginny stood in the kitchen and stared at the kettle that was heating up.


A week before this Ginny and Ray had been in the in the principal’s office of their daughter’s high school. She had been skipping school, which was the reason that they had been called in. But in reality, there was a whole litany of offences that Callie was committing on a regular basis. Smoking, swearing at teachers, failing classes. Ginny was horrified as she ran her eyes down the list. “You see Mr. and Mrs. Hadson we are naturally very concerned about Callie’s recent behavior” Mr. Greymond, the principal, said. “It was only very recently that she was in the honors society and a part of the cheerleading squad”.
Ginny looked at Ray, he had that slight frown look on his face that he always had. His eyes held that same glossy blank stare that did not offer any picture into his thoughts. Ginny felt herself becoming consumed by hate. It started in her stomach and steadily rose. 
        As Mr. Greymond went on, Ginny’s mind wandered. She ran her tongue over her stained and crooked teeth, an unconscious habit denoting her unease. She looked at the principal. He was a giant, corpulent, whale of a man. The fat under his chin dangled and followed the movements of his jaw going up and down, setting it in perpetual motion. The high cheek bones and low overhanging brow set an odd contrast that was thrown off ever further by his chubby puffed cheeks. He had a high voice that was unexpected for someone his size. It was hard to believe that he was someone of authority. 
“So, what are we going to do?” 
 “Well”, said Mr. Greymond, “You see, Callie is really nothing new. We have kids who act out like this all the time and its just teenage angst. But what has us concerned here is how fast it happened in Callie, she was perfectly fine and then overnight she quit the cheerleading squad and stopped caring about her academic career.”
A long silence lingered in the air. Mr. Greymond leaned forward in his chair and extended his clasped hands towards them, “Mr. and Mrs. Hadson, I am going to ask you a bit of a personal question”. He peered at them over the tops of his glasses, “Did something happen at home?” 


Ginny was steeping her tea as Ray came in and grabbed a Budweiser from the fridge. He sat down across from her. Ginny took out a cigarette and started to light it, “I’m gonna smoke in here”, she said, “I’ve been through enough tonight”. Ray took a sip of his beer, nodded and said nothing. 
“You know why are you such a goddamn pushover, huh”, said Ginny, “This whole thing wouldn’t have happened tonight if when she woke up tomorrow, she knew she couldn’t play daddy’s little girl, feed you all that bullshit and everything would be fine”. 
“Ginny, It’s-”
“No, whatever you are about to say I don’t care. I’ve heard it all before”. 
Ginny put out her cigarette out on the plate in the middle of the table. Ray gazed at her. Her body was facing his, but her head was positioned down and to the right. She could not meet his eyes. Finally, Ray relented and sighed, “I’ll see you in the mornin.”, his voice deep and sonorous with a slight lisp. As he got up and turned, Ginny turned her look towards him. She stared intensely at his blue and white plaid flannel, becoming lost in the endless pattern. He wasn’t a short man, but Ginny was taller than him. She was reminded of this as she watched him walk away. Her eyes turned to his beat-up hat he had left on the table. It was saturated in a chemically disintegrating mix of oil, sweat and dirt. The letters F-O-R-D were about 5 levels removed from their original deep-maroon state, as was the rest of the hat. She heard Ray click on the television and knew that he was sitting in the same chair he always sat in, drinking the same beer he always drank. The beer was held in his left hand and propped up on the arm cushion, the right hand held the TV remote and was similarly angled. The chair was next to the couch. 
        She thought back to when she first married Ray. They were in the same high school class and had only marginally known each other, he did not even graduate. But in a small town, it was enough for him to propose. Yet to those who knew her, knew she would say no. She had plans, big plans. She wanted to move far away. It wasn’t that she held a grudge against the town, more so than it was Ginny herself. She was like a caged animal whose only solace rested in the brief and tiny hope that one day she might be able to roam the plains with complete freedom. The kind of freedom that was inexplicably instinctual, passed through the generations. 
        After high school, after she said no to Ray, Ginny got that chance at freedom. In a graduating class of 47, nine went on to college, Ginny among the few. The State University was her chance, her ticket to life she had so yearned. For a small-town girl, it was not easy to assimilate into a place that held the campus type of life. Most of her classmates were from exotic places like California, Oregon, Massachusetts, and she had even met a European. She was always aware she didn’t belong. They laughed at her when she said that she had never been to the ocean. They made fun of the way the she spoke and pronounced words like pencil as, pin-cell. Even her professors made her cry, when they ridiculed her for wasting their time with questions that should have been answered in high school. 
She learned through soul crushing experience that it was a cruel world, that rendered no mercy. She had broken out of her cocoon too early, where her wings, not quite strong enough to give flight, were forever damaged. This was a world unto which she could not carry on, the difference was too stark. She became increasingly more conscious that a place like this, was not for a girl like her. Shortly after she returned home and married Ray. 


        Ginny thought about the events that had occurred that night. The ignominious phone call from her daughter’s drunken friend telling her she needed to pick up her daughter. She thought of the questioning stares she got as she walked into the house party to retrieve her daughter, only to find her naked, running around the basement. The worst, was the morbid scene of trying to load Callie in the truck. She was on serious drugs. The movements her body was making were too unnatural and random. As if a sudden electrical shock was sent to specific limb and she was reflexively trying to shake out the feeling, except these currents were running through her all at once. Finally, Ray had managed to wrangle her into the bed of the truck. As they drove away Ginny saw in the rear-view mirror the shadows of an accumulated crowd gathered around each of the windows of the house. She shuddered. Why? Why is she doing this? 


The next morning Ginny and Ray pulled out of the driveway before sunup and were on their way to the furniture store, where Ginny worked. There wasn’t much in Acreston. The town only had population of 5,000 and besides the quaint cluster of buildings in the center of town that marked the usual necessities of a townhall and police station, it was rural America picturesque. Farm country, rustbelt, flyover states, there was a whole bunch terms to which people who weren’t from here used to describe the area where they lived. Ginny knew it simply as home. 
        As they drove, she looked at the sun rising out of the distant fields. The pinks, reds, and yellow being omitted stood in sharp contrast the heavy indigo of the night sky. Steadily, the rising light scoured and illuminated the flat pastures that it arose out of. And when they passed a house, a black silhouetted outline appeared floating on the horizon. The golden hue poured through every crevasse and every window. The smoke coming from each chimney, carved out a tight but fluid cloud that signaled although it was early, the inhabitants were already well into their days by now. Such is life out here.  
“You sleep any?”, Ray asked.
“Hardly, how can I after last night? I mean Jesus, Ray, what do you think she was on? I have never heard a human being make some of the noises she was making” 
“I know”
“What are you gonna do?”
“I’m gonna have a talk with her when I get home”, Ray said.
“A talk? It better be more than just a talk, she should never be able to step foot outside again after what she put us through-what she’s been putting us through. She knows that she can get away with this, she always does. I…I...”
“…I just don’t want to lose her”, she added in soft whimper.
“I know, Ginny. I know”.
        The furniture store was three towns overs, in Woodersville. For the surrounding towns, it was the only place where they had a connection to the rest of the world. It was not a city by any means, but it was the closest thing they had to one out here. It had its farmland and open pastures, but it also had a Denny’s and a strip mall. It was an event to come out here, it was where those who arose each day and put in a hard day’s work could come to spend what little money they had managed to put aside and buy something they didn’t exactly need, but it was something that brought pride. A minor but valued reflection of the hard-working life they lived.
Ginny loathed everything about the furniture store. It looked like a large open warehouse that someone decided to fill with a bunch of couches and recliners. It held the careless anonymity of consumerism that constituted most brand name retailers of the day. Everything was uniformed through a set of directions and rules dictated from the corporate headquarters. At the faintest whiff of an infraction, her manager Danny was always running around with his obnoxious binder searching for the article telling him how to proceed. Danny was a younger man who had too much enthusiasm than was required for the job he currently held. He was thin, medium height, and cardstock white. His light brown hair came down and covered his forehead but was swept aside as soon as it reached the top of his brow. There was a perpetual smile he carried that had a superficial air about it due to its constancy. Beyond the white of his smile and skin, his face was lit up by acne, creating a slightly deeper pinkish total complexion than the rest of his body. This deeper hue accentuated the contrast of his unblinking bright, electric blue eyes that were bulging from his glasses. This was the man, kid really, to whom she was subordinate. 
        On her smoke break, Ginny looked across the parking lot at the cars aligned in rows. The weather was comfortable. The blue sky and fluffed clouds looked as if they were freshly painted in bright acrylic paints. The sun basked the scene in a golden hue, radiating its warmth and light combined perfectly in a single ray. The muffled conversations of people coming and going, the low-pitched hum of cars accelerating slowly through the parking lot, the electric swoosh of the automated doors opening as people approached. All this noise accumulated was constant and loud enough to crowd her mind and drown out the screaming of her thoughts. Ginny felt a fleeting desire to stay there, in that very moment, forever. 
        She remembered when Callie was born and thought about the absurd amount of joy that could be found in something that didn’t do anything. A newborn just takes. It didn’t make them richer, it didn’t help clean the dishes, vacuum the bedroom, or fold the laundry. But a mother’s love transcends all this, it is not even a fleeting glimmer of a thought. The midnight feedings, diaper changes, bodily fluids, this was met with constant fulfillment. It seemed as if the more repulsive and demanding the task needing to be done, the more earnestness and willingness she had to do it. Callie brought something into her life she hadn’t experienced since she was young.
        As Callie got older, that joy had cemented itself inside of Ginny. But it was different than it had previously been. It wasn’t as bursting, as urgent. It was unsettling to a degree, she slowly saw her whole purpose of being slipping away from her. She tried to double down and bring back that same light she had once had, but it was never as bright as it was. Her life’s direction was suddenly without course. As if she had fulfilled her duties in life and now was not needed, she was resigned to the holding pen with the other matured cattle, waiting for the slaughter. She didn’t know who or what she was anymore.
        Her favorite memories of Callie were when it was just the two of them. Ray worked first shift then, so she would make dinner for when he got home and then the three of them would sit around the table and eat. The really special moments were late afternoon, right after Callie woke up from her nap. She would sit in her high chair while Ginny cooked and they would play little games. Her favorite was the time when she had arranged the potatoes on the table in front of Callie and was trying to get her to say potato. She was repeated it over and over, PO-TA-TOE. Callie tried and tried to formulate the words but couldn’t get the phonetics just right. Finally, she slapped her hand down in the middle of the table and yelled, “Toe-Toes”. Ever since, Ginny would tell this story every time they ate potatoes and every time, she laughed liked she did the first time. It was not the birthdays nor the first days of school, that she looked back on. It was the toe-toe moments that she would always remember most. The fewer and fewer they got, the tighter she held them. 
But now Callie was getting older and that meant she was becoming less dependent on them. She was home less, in her room more, and began to get her own ideas of how things should be. There was the day when she came home from school and was helping her mother fold laundry,
“You went to college”, she said to her mother.
“Why?”, Ginny asked
“You never told me why you left”
Ginny was handling one of Ray’s flannel shirts. It was well worn, the stitching loose around the seams. She folded it into a neat square and unfolded it. Then refolded it and pressed down along the creases, “It was too expensive for my parents to afford at the time. Pa wasn’t working and needed the extra help around the house”
 “Mrs. Gibbons gave us a presentation at school”, Callie said handing her mother a brochure, “They have scholarships for people like us”
Ginny stared at the college brochure Callie handed her. It looked almost exactly the same as she remembered. 
“Me and Trish were talking about going to visit the state university in a couple of weeks”
Ginny sat there trying to process all of this information.
 Callie got up and went to the kitchen. Ginny remembered back to the same conversation she had with her own parents. She knew exactly how Callie was feeling. But yet the hopes and dreams of one did not reconfigure the world to allow for those aspirations to happen. Things are how they are, and the sooner that she gets around to accepting this, the sooner she realizes a place like that, is not for a girl like her. Callie resumed her seat on the couch next to Ginny,
“I don’t think you understand what it’s like out there”
 “I’m going”, Callie said, “If I don’t do this, I’m never gonna get out of here”
“Listen to me right now, this is the hard truth and you better start accepting it. They don’t want you there, get it? Your just some stupid hick girl that’s there for them to laugh at and make fun of.  You have a good life here, I don’t want to see you ruin it”
“Mom, it’s different now then it was”
“It’s for your own good. Now that’s the last I’m gonna hear of it”
Ginny continued on folding, Callie leaned back into the couch in a sulking manner.
“I’m going to apply anyway”
“If you apply, then that’s the last you will ever see of your father and me”
Callie got up and stormed out of the room, and yelled over her shoulder, “I’m stuck in this fucking town”
“That’s right”


That night at the dinner table, Ginny sat across from Ray just as she had the previous night. Ray had stayed home from work that day to look after Callie. Ginny had only gotten home an hour ago and had spent her time making dinner. She sat across from Ray in silence. They had been together long enough that there wasn’t too much that had gone unsaid. But yet in that margin of unsaid things, there was too much to say. Silence was the norm and silence pervaded. 
“Callie isn’t hungry?”, she asked.
“No, I made her some food earlier. She needs to rest”
Ginny stared at the brown lump of meatloaf on her plate. The edges were burned so she took her fork and broke down the shape it was in. Then she stirred it all around.
“Did you to talk to her?”
“Yes”
“Well…”
“She feels embarrassed about last night. She didn’t mean to do that”
Ginny stared at Ray, waiting for him to explain further. 
“But why? Why is she doing all of this” she asked. 
“I don’t know, to be honest I don’t think she does either”
A scowl erupted on Ginny’s face. She looked off the side, her eyes shifting back and forth. “Did you ask her this?”
“No”
“God-damn it Ray, I told you to be stern”
“That ain’t gonna fix this. Only make it worse”
“Yeah? What do you suppose-”
Callie entered the kitchen, inserting a silence into the middle of their conversation. She walked to the pantry and kept her back turned to the middle of her room. She rummaged through the cabinets. Both parents watched their daughter try to be invisible. 
“What do you to have to say for yourself?” Ginny said. 
Callie had a look of shame and guilt that radiated from her fixed stare down at the floor, like an old dog with his tail between his legs.
“You apologize to me right now. You hear-”
“Not now, Ginny” Ray said.
“Yes now”, She said turning to her daughter, “It’s all over Callie, you hear me? Done. All that shit you’ve been pulling at school. It’s about time you pay for actions”
Callie stood there stunned, not ready for this onslaught. She looked to Ray for help. 
His eyes held on the plate in front of him.
“He’s not gonna help you now. No one can. You’re on your own”.
Callie stared back at Ginny, a mystifying defiance now hardened in Callie’s eyes. Ginny saw this wash over her, she knew what was happening because she too had the same baffling quality of obstinacy in the most unfortunate situations. 
“Apologize”, Ginny demanded, “right now”. 
 “No”
“What?”, Ginny said, getting up and moving over towards Callie. “Apologize to me”.
“Fuck you”
Ginny thrust her hand out to Callie’s face. The web between her thumb and forefinger was cupped perfectly under Callie’s lips. She had a tight grasp on her face, pushing and squeezing up all the fat in her cheeks to above where her fingers were. This pushed the edges of her lips together and crinkled them. She pulled Callie’s face down level with hers.
“I’m sick of this. Why can’t you be happy here? Do you know how hard me and your father work? I’ve-we’ve-made life so simple for you but you don’t appreciate any of this”.
The defiance in Callie now dripped down from her eyes. Taking a convoluted path between the scrunched-up indents of skin and ultimately landing at the base of Ginny’s finger. Ginny pulled her hand away, and wiped it on her pants. The emotions then rushed out from Callie with force.
Ginny stared at Callie who had her head in her hands. 
“Apologize to me right now”, she said. 
“Stop it”, Callie burst out through a veil of hair, mucus, and tears.
In one quick and fluid motion Ginny brought her hand up and across her face. She did it again. And again. Harder and harder.
“Ginny knock that off-” Ray said, starting get up.
“Sit down Ray” she said, turning around and pointing back at the seat. She turned back to Callie who was now at her feet, curled up in a fetal ball.
Ginny stood there towering over her daughter for several minutes. She stared down at the pitiful state her child was in and felt a rising surge of guilt. It was there, present in the subconscious, but this was overtaken by anger. The anger consumed everything in its path, like a wildfire gaining strength the farther it spreads. The emotion in Callie put her into a docile state.  The shaking in Ginny’s hands stopped, her breathing slowed, she took a deep breath and stiffened her posture. Then she took her foot and with it slowly moved her daughter to her back so that she lay there belly up, with her arms at her side. Then she slightly raised the bottom her shoe and placed it on Callie’s right cheek.
“Just stay”, she said with a croak in her voice, “stay right here”. 
She stepped harder onto her face and stayed like this. Callie’s screams for her father fell deaf. 


Ginny stepped back from her daughter, who had reddened groves from the bottom of her shoe imprinted upon her face. She walked over to the mantle where she kept her cigarettes and slid one from the pack. She turned to face Ray at the table in the center of the room. She put the cigarette in her mouth and lit it with her head tilted to the right. Then, she shifted her gaze from the end of the cigarette to Ray. He was sobbing with his head in hands. She took a long inhale and then turned and opened the door. She took one last glance back to Callie who was still lying on the floor. 
 Toe-toes, she thought, never again. 
With that, she passed the threshold and walked out into the night. 






















“On a Walk to Baseball Practice”


TJ and I are out, as usual.
we fear danger,
we fear being mistaken as Danger: we are
constantly cautious so as not to startle
The Cautious, our looks pull
Their Trigger.
We simply are here, trying,
wanting so deeply 
 to be Understood,


just this one time.


I’d like not to be behind
before the race even begins, before
The Official’s gun can even
jolt the Spectators with a
bang and some smoke
in the air, blotching color 
where they expect to see none
(Well, until it is invisible,
again, forgettable, and not for


just this one time.)


Tonight, our spectators 
are simply the Neighbors,
even though they don’t act like
Neighbors as they peer from curtains
in front rooms suspicious of us
because of this uniform we are
born wearing. They wait
for us to prove ourselves Worthy --
but won’t help us to become so,
not realizing that we already are worthy,
simply because 


we are. Though it won’t be  just this one time,


we still try, TJ, because this 
is everyday: it shouldn’t be,
But it always is, and we are always;
we are trying,
officer
Fruit Salad


Stretching sticky-sweet 
mornings soaked in
pineapple sunlight, strawberry silence,
green grass growing days.


In those days we 
napped in our peach pit penthouses, 
wondered where we’d be next year 
(they told us we can be anything)


or we 


wandered the apple orchard
with blueberry stained braces
and cherry pie smiles
 (aren’t we American?)


Until plum twilight, porch lights 
left on led us home to 
crash on cantaloupe couches,
soft seeds promising life.














diego


i should have been named diego; la sangre de españa lurking within me
would have puffed out its chest and proclaimed i was here to revive el siglo
de oro over in the “new world.” i would have been solid, a man of realism
and integrity and oil on canvas, a man who made a piece vital enough it had
become the basis of the theology of painting. royalty’s most prized commodity.


i should have been named diego; there’s a history there that my ancestors would
have liked to have seen swirl in the northern states. he was converso and a native
storyteller wrapped into sprawling murals and coffee colored skin. a diego who
spun simplified figures and bold colors into fables and fairy tales and history.
his calla lilies hang on my wall, purity and faith curled into hands like mine.


when i arrived, silent and smaller than anticipated, unqualified to be the artist,
the myth; rather, i adopt the titular name of una reyna. once upon a time, a diego
strokes a brush down a canvas, looks into the past to the queen that unified spain,
the good catholic, the founder of a modern bureaucracy, the ruler of an empire
that craved gold like hungry swine, a beautiful sea serpent, hungry for human flesh.






























lengua at market basket


goya speaks to me with spanish flow
dialect tumbling down tongues eager
to taste some semblance of hogar
in white places. the woman next to me
scoffs at words she can’t pronounce,
repeats them in a mocking tone while
my eyes trace a boy with a jarritos
guayaba blush painting his cheeks.


native tongues are not welcomed into
suburbia. i pull tostadas from the shelf,
place them next to almond milk, eggos;
the picture of american dreaming.
turning my back on the woman jeering
with lip upturned, i spin myself towards
tanned skin and sangria suit jackets.


her name tag proudly proclaims 15 years,
but her eyes say a few too many so i stay
quiet as she packs pieces of me
into recycled bags that cost 2.99. i let
her place them in the carriage before giving
thanks in our rejected mother tongue.






















details


You told me to fall in love with moments. A six hour phone call. Passing pieces of dried pineapple. Swearing when you pull into a deserted church parking lot. Telling me that dogs are good at loving. Reminding me it’s going to be okay.
        A “hey” and a smile only shadowed by worried eyes, followed by my nod that yes, I’m okay. An exasperated sigh when looking over an assignment nearly impossible to understand. Hands trying to fix a mess of papers. A quick and unexpected hug. A perfectly timed joke that no one but me will laugh at. A hand to hold during scary movies because neither of us like them but someone does and she makes us sit on the loveseat so she can lie down on the couch and make faces at us until we lean into one another with a contented sigh.
        Stuttering out my name. Smiling until my cheeks hurt. Trying to navigate the back roads of a town over. Sitting in a field we don’t know the name of until night falls. Pointing out constellations you can see and I can explain. Talking about how beautiful the lightning is. A common dislike of fireworks when alone. Watching the same TV show from across town. Fun facts. Standing face to face in a downpour when you tell me your parents are thinking about calling it quits for good. Collapsing into each other when we think the world is falling apart. Slurping from the same smoothie like this is Scooby Doo.
        Your inability to remember your lines. Distracting me like it’s second nature. Making the same face when we glance at the latest, greatest, breaking news. Roasting each other while roasting marshmallows. Planning on making a future together. Ignoring the looks someone’s been shooting us all night as we spin memories into tales for a whole new group of friends.
        Calling me a partner in crime. Fingertips running over my knuckles after I’ve come out of a game, covered in softball debris and dirt from behind the plate. The kiss to my cheek on the way home from a movie, our best friend eyeing us in the rearview mirror as she chats away with her sister in the front of the car. Holding my hands to “keep warm” as we trudge through the snow, heading away from responsibilities for weekend shenanigans.
        “The story we can tell our kids one day.”
        A three am phone call about the time you got electrocuted and the fact your brother is on a date but they’re monopolizing the TV in the living room so you’re trapped upstairs with his laptop and a box of Honey Nut Cheerios. Realizing you’ve forgotten to pick your brother up from the airport. Showing up at my house at midnight with McDonalds fries and a Wendy’s frosty and kidnapping me so you don’t have to drive into the city alone.
        Finding little things in common. Distracting me from a bad week. Bad puns. Your smile. Your laugh. The way you’re the worst at mini golf but it’s okay because the fifth time I went you saved me from falling into the fountain. Collapsing into the grass together only to find out hands already winding together. The way you say my name. The way you tell me that I’m your constant. Telling you yeah maybe there’s someone but never having the courage to tell you who.
        And it’s been five years and I loved you and maybe you could have loved me.
But you’re fifteen hundred miles away and we’re locked in a dance with different partners and the girl that once told us we’d collapse into each other just died in a bar three countries away from us.


















































































la Chapelle de Saint-Rémy


I. 
Outside, the stone of the church
presses cold into the palm of my small hand. 
Mom tells me, 


Spirits pull its heat so they might depart 
from these grounds golden with wheat.


II. 
Brides walk the middle isle in white, 
both hands cupped full of red: love
leaks from their hearts,


pulled up and out of chaste chests. Here,
girls offer themselves under the cold stone.  


III. 
The church wears Easter well: 
blue-grey painted face and windows
like eyes. Inside the people


bend on knees to worship a sacrifice
not even the aged stones remember accurately. 


VI.
Still every Sunday I linger at the door,
feeling for the cold - ghosts 
trying to escape. 


Once mother leaves me and I am alone
I will not come to visit her among these lonely stones.  
















On Nostalgia


How’s your memory? Does she still
dance? Waltz through the living
room, turn off all the lights,
pull the photos from the walls &
listen to the glass 
shatter?


You used to lie
on the floor, run your fingers 
through her hair
                     and cry. 
































































a goose and a moose
met a moose and a goose


geese
moose 


































































apartment complex


boxes
stacked like blocks
filled with life
filled with stories


of best friends
and friendships at their end
of lovers turned roommates
and roommates turned lovers
and loners
ambling around


listening
to epik high
blaring from speakers
two floors above
and to arguments
spilling from mouths
three floors down
and to friends catching up
in the room next door


listen to these


boxes
stacked like blocks
brimming with life
on this tuesday night
























































Ozone


I love the way the axel of his wrist
turns the vortex of space with a spoon
between our eyes. This moment is trapped on vinyl,
meditating like a mug on the microwave turntable,
somewhere in the background of our eyesight.
The kitchen light is dark.


My tongue catches me off guard when I tell
him that I love him. The timer shatters, and the light
of the microwave like the nebula in his iris 
disappears across the event horizon.


I’m reminded that I define him by what he isn’t. 
We cannot understand each other with our skewed gaze.
The mug of waning moonlight doesn’t warm my hands
like I hoped it would. He remains outside my atmosphere.


But later, in the fractured bedroom mirror,
he bucks his palm into my chest. I let him pile drive my heart
until it collapses in on its own density and his weight locks into my hip 
and the shrinking space between our lips cuts off the morning sun. 
A moment passes and with new air in my throat, I glance, glacier-nosed
and bite into the clock-time on his neck.


Between us,
in thinning layers,
there is only Ozone.




















































this train will be standing by
to Jonathan Richman


your sound of modern loneliness when it’s cold outside –
I hear it each time we hit Blandford St and slip
underground backwards, the light slides away and it’s
Kenmore and pressing bodies and Hynes and
leaned-back closed-eyed heads bumping against the glass.


It sounds a lot like steel grating steel tracks
a tin voice calling stop then tired stop.
I can feel my skin around my bones and
this tunnel tight around the train.
The dark clinging to the window presses my own face back at me.


There’s no route 128 opening up
no radio on
there are only those nights resurfacing to get stranded somewhere
around Brookline Hills, standing by, counting puffs of breath,
just waiting here in Massachusetts when it’s late at night.
















Bartering:
An International Student Contemplates an English Major




I would give
a dandelion for some wiring
                               neurons attuned to math
a thistledown for a dime
                               dollars for a Gold Pass
a moonbeam for some breakfast
                                I missed due to stress
a ransom for a quiet mind
                                that dwells on dreams less 






Gathering starlight pleased me
                                  You’ll be pleased and hungry
then grew thick the mist
                                  mist of childish fancy
with ticking time.
                                  Who’d pay for immigrant poetry?
Dancing on the edge suited me
                                   Double majoring, perhaps.
till I tread on the Jungle’s confines.
                                   Get real or get out.
                                       




Wherefore am I here?
                                   America don’t need losers.
Perhaps I traded wrong.






What I really need
Is a grassroot for some courage
                                   Or better, a work visa
A flask of berry mead strong.
fury heart, stone heart


release the breath you’ve been holding for the past two years when they ask, 
what is the hardest thing you’ve ever been through?
try to reign in the links spearing through your mind like
fishing rods casting lines of starlight across the lake you’ve almost drowned in 
        twice. 
perhaps you stop upon the time
        when control melted like taffy between your fingertips, when your mother’s lung 
deflated and collapsed—for a brief moment you didn’t know if God was real but you 
prayed nonetheless. or maybe you freeze upon realizing that it could be
your excuses for your shaking hands. for when you shot upright in bed and sweat clung 
to the sheets and you couldn’t convince yourself that you were the image 
of Achilles, glistening with oil and a will to survive a war—until he didn’t. 
do not tell them that you had no Patroclus, you were not dipped into the river Styx. 
you drank those gray waters and grew a Fury for a heart when your lover crept in close and revealed himself to be a 
war. 
and he took everything from you, trained your hell-heart to hate, to hate, and 
        to hate. he tested the bounds of your immortality, cut the flesh of your heart and licked the life from his fingers. at that point, your pain was a live, writhing thing, a bird 
throwing itself against the notches of your ribcage. 
he split a pomegranate between your legs. Persephone screamed when you 
could not. 
and then the war ended, and you were astounded when the pain did not come from
        other hands. but you could still taste the sour bite of the seeds the battle scraped out of you. you did not have the will to fight anymore. 
tear this pain from me. take it away. you begged this as your skin remained
split open. Medusa came, saw herself in you. she called you beautiful. 
        but you were not beautiful. you were a wound. 
you could not stand to be touched, but you were desperate, drunk, lonely, 
and perhaps a bit in love— 
you kissed Medusa, and the rotten strips of your heart smoothed over to a polished 
stone. it wasn’t better—but it was better. 
Medusa, turn me to stone. numb me until
        the nights are silent. and she obliged. 
but then she returned to the legends, a tightly held secret 
tucked beneath your palms. 
love died and there was nothing left. you have a heart of stone and the battle rages on. 
If I was Shot Right Now


they would care more about the Mona Lisa.
French silvers by, blue turns to red 
on the canvas. I look for the lines,
the shift in the air – a man 
there reaches


into his jacket. Hold pressure, fill
the hole with your finger, memories
pour from a sieve into my cupped
hands. Two exit signs in view,
one around Nike of Samothrace, the other
behind a closed door. That man


fumbles for his wallet. Someone tell 
the security guard there’s a bag,
a mis-stare. What news remains 
if not here 


then where? The trick is to know
how to find the buried lines  
in her face. To not be distracted
by her eyes but to follow what happens 
out of frame.  


































Nothing Ever Really Gets Said


between us. A dog yanks
at its leash in my heart. 
You say, “I’m fine” 
in the morning,
at night. The chrysalis 
on the windowsill swallowed
by a cat. Two parrots


caw at each other. You and I 
sit in the same room but


its not the same room. 
I say, “Did I do something?”
In each hand, I hold a brick
pried from a wall. A mirror
reflects your face.


My mouth opens, not to say
wear your glasses please
when driving in the rain but 
to bark 


doggish booms like a hound
pointed at a rabbit who understands
not. Yet enough to know to run.  


































Over the Surface of the Deep


We put up with the heat until the middle of October, and then I decide I have to go north.
The impulse strikes—inspiration, God-breathed in a loud moment, while Bran is locked up in words and oblivious. We’re at a café downtown and it’s so hot the sunscreen mixes with sweat and runs right off my arms. I’m trying to paint but I have no ideas, not in Houston—the world is too noisy—I can’t concentrate. I’m imagining noise pollution with a color like smog and I wonder if I can paint that, but all I have is a grainy silhouette of a dumpster truck and I’ve scrawled the words breath of life across the bottom.
Bran and I have been here almost a year and we thought it would be cooler by now. It’s a fluke heat wave and it feels like August, the month when nothing gets done, when it’s so hot the paint won’t set and we spend our days moving as little as we can manage, just letting this city spin and shout around us.
Bran’s reading something. He keeps wiping his glasses on the inside of his shirt. Sometimes he whispers to himself, putting ideas together out loud, but he’s having trouble concentrating. I reach over and try to draw in the fog on his lenses but he smacks my hand away, and I throw another streak of muddy paint on the canvas and stare at the skyscrapers across the street, trying to think. If faith as small as a mustard seed can move mountains—I frown at these towers and hold my breath and they just stare back at me, all self-satisfied because they’re made of stone, and I let my breath go and decide that my faith is not enough to shake any human-made city.
“I am going to the North Pole,” I declare, the divine prophecy spilling from my lips and catching him across the face. At least, I want it to. More truthfully it just pulls the sweat a little farther down his brow. He raises his eyes.
“Maybe not the North Pole,” I say. “Maybe Alaska. Maybe Iceland.”
“You hate the cold,” he says.
“I’ve never said that,” I say, and he looks at me with an expression that tells me he really does know better this time.
“Let’s not think about the cold, then,” I say, as a trio of motorcycles go by and I have to repeat myself, “think about how blank it is, I want to see empty land” and I have his attention but he still says “Alaska isn’t as blank as you think” because he likes to argue. But I can tell he’s sick of loud cities and maybe it’s time to move on anyway—we’ve never stayed anywhere longer than a year or two, and we’ve seen a lot of the world but never a cold place, where the soil doesn’t turn because it is frozen and all the stories have to do with ice because every creature depends on where it comes from.
So I win Bran over and we move on quickly, as we always do, and by the end of November we’ve landed in Anchorage. It is far from vacant. I’ve never seen a city more out of place, right on the edge of a mountain range.
A friend of Bran’s has a cabin in Skwentna, north and west from Anchorage, where he comes to photograph in the summertime. The only way to get there is by boat or snow machine. The current population is thirty-seven. As we skate over the frozen land I feel like we’re circling backward in time.
Even out here, Bran is right—the land isn’t as blank as I thought it would be, there are trees and a few scattered houses—but we’re still in the middle of nowhere, whatever that means. The trees are small and ragged. It is dusky and snow is falling tenderly, silencing the world, which is made of ice—creaking, shadowy ice.
In the beginning the Spirit of God hovered over the waters and then God went about creation by separating everything—light from dark, water from earth. God (I try not to call God “He”) breathed over the waters, over the land, into the nostrils of humans, and with God’s breath came God’s creative energy—so you’d think humans, made in the image of God, would have been creative enough to think of a genderless pronoun for God other than God. And you’d think living in a world heaving with humans would fuel my own artistic vitality.
I survey the land. It is not quite blank but it is cold, and I have to wonder if God ever breathed here.


Bran and I have been a team a dozen years. We’ve moved west and west together. We’ve lived near mountains and farmland and skyscrapers in all kinds of cities. I told him once that the word “planet” comes from an ancient Greek word that means “wanderer” and he thought about that for the rest of the afternoon.
He’s a photographer and I’m a painter so we’re allowed to move around and see how the land changes. Sometimes I paint the same things Bran photographs and we put them up next to each other and they look impossibly different. I wish I could take pictures as good as Bran’s. He wishes he could paint.
When we go north, I bring a big canvas and a handful of small, cheap ones, because when I am inspired I go through them faster than I keep track of. I paint without thinking. I never could stand an empty canvas.
We wake in the far north, the grave north. There is oatmeal, and there is coffee—the first day—and Bran and I start working and out of nothing we create. We talk the morning into evening. The two of us, at least, have never been able to work in silence. Sometimes—not very often, because Bran’s good at talking—he stops and searches for a word and I throw a few out to him, and he lets them fall to the floor because they’re all wrong. He keeps wondering how we can understand each other when words are so imprecise, or maybe we don’t understand each other at all and we only think we do. I shrug and say whatever the case, it seems to be working.
On the second day, Bran bets I can’t catch a fish big enough to eat so when he heads off to photograph, I find a river and go out fishing. My hands and feet are cold, but Bran’s already been right about a few things this morning so I keep waiting to prove him wrong. Fishing is the opposite of wandering.
I tap my feet and hum a made-up song to myself. I’m looking at the sky and wondering why the sun hasn’t risen above the trees even though it’s one in the afternoon, as though the light hadn’t been totally separated from the dark in this place. I make a note to ask Bran about it when I get back. I think of him out somewhere taking pictures, and I bet he’s talking to himself—God, I can’t wait to see him—and then I feel the line drop. My eyes snap to the river and it meanders back and forth for a minute before I remember to pull it up. The fish puts up a fight and it’s my energy against his for a moment before I have it, flopping there waiting to die like a run-on sentence and I take it home and separate the hell out of it—head from body, flesh from scales.
Bran tells me he’s impressed. He shows me his pictures—of ice netting across leaves, of bear tracks, things nobody else has probably ever seen, and they’re amazing. I go to bed happy and lie awake a few minutes, eyes open, fooling myself into seeing images in the dark. I lift a finger and trace words, earth river God heat Bran and I can see them, hanging there in silver.
In the beginning was the Word; in the beginning God created. Word and world—God spoke the world into being. God set the planet in wandering motion. God made a human (’ādām) from the earth (’ǎdāmâ), and with the human came language and the second Adam was Christ, the Logos, the Word. God created, God created.
I’ve never really understood what they mean when they call Christ “the Word” but I like the idea of redemption by language.
Language must be God-breathed. It baffles me.
I realize I’m still awake. That annoys me. Sleep is regenerative and God knows I always need regenerating. I look over at Bran, sleeping so still and peacefully on his back. I take his hand and his silence breaks and he mumbles something in his sleep about Michelangelo. I move closer to him—he is warm. He rolls over so he’s facing me and his breath plants a little sphere of heat above my collarbone, lulling me to sleep.
Bran wants to go ice fishing. He renewed his license when we stopped in Anchorage. I wonder if he’s feeling competitive but I liked how it felt to catch a fish and feel it alive and mortal in my hands, and I bet Bran would get such a look of amazement on his face, and I can’t miss that. We put on snowsuits and we go for the existential chill.


North is dim. Bran says it’s only this time of year that the sun doesn’t come up over the trees, and in the summer it never sets—an endless jarring daytime. Right now there’s a velvety light over everything, and there’s an intimacy between earth and light that makes me feel as though I shouldn’t be here. We arrive at the nearby lake and step out over the water. 
I see ice, thick like Scripture, blurred like Scripture through the smoke of my breath. I am like a dragon or maybe this is how it looked at the beginning when God breathed light and heat over a frozen world. Bran isn’t having have the comparison. He says the world wasn’t frozen in the beginning because Genesis was written about Mesopotamia, and even this frozen world is full of life and that’s why we are ice fishing anyway.
Sometimes I wish I could read his mind and know his arguments ahead of time. Maybe then I could think of a response that would shut him up. But I know Bran’s words are put together at the same time they fall out of his mouth, not like mine which sit and steam for a moment until I decide they’re ready. And anyway, I like how Bran talks, I like it too much to seriously want to cut him off. He’s still telling me how many types of fish there must be under the ice and which ones he wants to catch. I’ve zoned out. I smile at him and he falls quiet and smiles back.
We wander together over the frozen surface. We pick a hole into the deep icy darkness. It feels wrong, somehow, like we’re breaking and entering. He drills it a little too wide, and it’s an inch or so thinner than he thought, and he tells me to be careful. The water is black and glossy.
He drops a line and we sit back and talk until we almost lose our voices.
We don’t catch any fish. I say maybe there are no fish, maybe it’s empty down there, and Bran keeps waiting.
I ask him if we should head back before it gets late and he says he’s willing to be a little stupid this afternoon if it means he can catch a damn fish. It’s still light out anyway, the same dim, silky light, so we keep at it. Our minds wander.
The sun disappears fast here. It is golden-hour and then darkness is over the surface, with no gradient in between or perhaps I’ve lost track of time—maybe time runs differently in the far-flung north. I was looking at Bran’s face and now I can hardly see it. He’s talking about apple trees. He heard about a guy who was buried next to one, and the tree’s roots spread out and ate his body as it decomposed. To dust we will return. 
I tell him I think the apocalypse will feel like a solar eclipse.
“I guess we’d better go,” he says then, still fishless, and I nod and stand up. I felt safe sitting down in my place but now my weight is shifting and I’m unsteady, I can’t see anything at all, and I can’t remember which way is which or where I was sitting; I take a step and hear a low cracking and I’m in the water, and the beginning of the world is revealed.
It is silent. It is black except for where some causeless light pokes through, and it turns the world a color I don’t have a name for. My mortality flies at me, knives in the water, because cold is sharp, cold is death, cold is silence. 
I can’t breathe but my lungs try anyway—I forget whether they call that a gasp reflex or a choke reflex—and I swallow bitter cold water and there is no separation between myself and the deep. And the deep is empty, it is formless and void, and terrible. A second later I do not know if my eyes are open but I look and I see shapes that are not there—the beast with its seven heads and ten horns, and Leviathan—and I’ve always imagined a world with no people except Bran and here it is, except Bran isn’t here either. It is like an old secret has been revealed to me by mistake; I am not supposed to be seeing this world before humans, before breath, before language.
And there’s a word, a word I can’t understand or remember. It sounds like a breath, it sounds like thunder going backwards, coming from an open grave or a creative Spirit in the deep; it sounds like the end of the world.
I’m in there for a couple seconds probably. My arms are raised over my head and I guess my muscles know what to do because I’ve swept myself back up, and Bran has caught hold of me. My head breaks the surface and the earth reappears, sound returns, and my lungs freeze as though I’m breathing a new kind of oxygen that my body doesn’t recognize.
I’m stronger than Bran and I almost pull him in with me. For a moment I think it’s over and there’s something about that image, both of us frozen in the beginning of time, suspended in a void so empty God could start creation all over again, and maybe we’d speak a new language when God thawed us out. But Bran holds on and I’m out as quickly as I fell in, and my body doesn’t know what to do with itself it’s so cold, and Bran says “Oh Christ” and I say “It’s okay man, I’ll tell you later” and I shrink against the ice.


I am not dead—I have not died. What is the difference? One is a statement of fact, one of anticipation.
The martyrs were burned to death, and I suppose that’s because it’s easier to burn than to freeze. There’s something heroic about fire and brimstone, more than ice and emptiness, but I think it’s as likely that hell is either, or both. Martyr means witness and I think of how ludicrous that is, to die for what you’ve seen and heard.
I’m wrapped in blankets and I guess I’m warm again, but the inside of my chest and my throat feel cold, like they will always be cold, though not in the worst of ways. Bran is beside me reading something. He looks up when I cough and says, “You’re an idiot” and goes back to his book smiling. God, he makes me laugh.
I think about painting what I saw. I know it’s not many people who have seen form in the blankness or heard a whisper through deep water. We understand no other world than the one we have created; I sit here and think, for the better part of an hour, of how I might describe it.
Instead I tell Bran I love him because that’s the best language I have, I think.
He’s left a canvas beside the bed and I reach for it. I am not so averse to a blank canvas but still I take the brush and begin to paint what I see out the window, talking to Bran, painting in time with my breath, because I am human.
































New Orleans Jazz 


I
She throws her tenderness to the carnival of collage. 
Disguised ancient kings and queens hold generous masquerade
Exempt from Catechism.


They pay homage to servants who commit bestiality 
And mantis devouring their last bit of lust 
For another toast. 


She no longer needs to scream like a peacock
But savors the pandemonium 
With a grunting chameleon tongue.


She never knew in New Orleans 
People never wore colorful masks, 
They were only black or white. 


II
The sorrow and grief of her ancestors 
Presaged a tragic artistry beneath 
Her opulent skin.
When they sinned by being born with Black masks, 
They did not howl 
With the soldiers marching under confederate flag. 


Instead, 
They sang the melody of redemption, 
Melting white glaciers with the pool of light. 


Therefore, people say 
Jazz is the only true American music, conceived with 
Violent beating of drums and bitter, tortured trombone. 


III
She wakes from a frosty dream, 
Next to a face weary and jaded 
But unknown to her. 


Old souls numb the last pains of waltzing dust.
February moonlight gently pours down 
And bears her miserable epiphany. 


She hears a distant whippoorwill wailing,
Plucking the string of double bass
With its doleful wings. 


The echo carries her 
To an origin she had long forgotten,
Reverberating in the swing of saxophone.








































Mothers of Pearl 


         One day in January last year, my grandmother and I watched over a jeweler as he sifted through a pool of tiny diamonds and chatted about his family in Egypt. He had poured out a little purse of jewels onto the worktable in his space—no larger than five feet by five feet, beneath a horrifically low ceiling—and was combing through them with tweezers. All these little diamonds were nestled into boxes and pouches in the stifling basement of a skyscraper in Midtown, and I felt like fainting. 


        I wasn’t sure why we couldn’t have gone to a jeweler closer to home—quieter, with taller ceilings—but my grandmother insisted that her mother used to get on a train and trundle along into the city to have her jewelry fixed. The jeweler would just send the ring here anyway, so we may as well do it ourselves. My grandmother and I sipped honey lattes on the morning train ride along the coast with the sun spilling onto the scarlet seats and compared our frustrations with my mother. While I had been at school, my mother had adopted the ring as her own, after taking off her second wedding ring and throwing it in a handmade dish. I came home for Christmas to find a hole just next to the pearl. 


        The whole trip I twisted and examined the ring, holding it up to the morning sun and moving it between different fingers. It fit on my middle finger, just below the knuckle. The ring just barely catches the light, light gold with a round pearl, flanked by two small diamonds that only seem significant when one has vanished.  


        I don’t remember exactly how my grandmother gave me this ring—I think it was sitting on her finger, not quite glittering, but like a centerpiece on her little hand. I told her that it looked lovely, so delicate and elegant, and she twisted it off her right ring finger and folded it into my palm. Don’t tell your grandfather, she said, and chuckled. My grandfather has bought my grandmother a piece of jewelry for every anniversary and important birthday since they had been married—he once tried a birdfeeder, which she loved, but went right back to earrings. They were both teachers and young parents, but he always set just enough money aside. Once, she hooked her finger into the sleeve of my sweater and whispered that she had to start thinning her collection.         
        
        My grandmother’s jewelry collection grew so that my grandfather decided to make her a secret cabinet in their armoire, a panel that opened out, lined with navy floral contact paper and dotted with hooks from which she could hang necklaces. He kept buying her jewelry and expanding their room to accommodate his own gifts to her. Once, my grandmother brought my younger sister and me into their bedroom, perched on the bed, and poured from a purse—almost like the diamond dealer—a dozen or so rings in gauzy pouches. She smiled and pressed her palm to her face almost in embarrassment at her collection. 
        
        My mother looked at the ring on my finger, then on her finger, and told me that her mother had never given her any jewelry. Some cross-stitched art, an oak table from my great-grandparents house, a console piano, a black leather couch, but no jewels. She told me it was not a good idea to bring the ring with me to college, that I would only lose it. My grandmother raised her eyebrows when I told her this; my mother was always losing things. Earrings and credit cards and wallets would be found in the well of the car, beneath the leather couch, at the bottom of her purse. She always demanded to know if we had taken them.
        
        The ring stayed home with my mother, in a small lavender dish in my bedroom. I think my mother used to keep it there—had I taken the train home in the middle of the night and checked the dish, the ring would be right where I had left it. But she slipped it brazenly onto her index finger, brought it along to work, tapped it against the steering wheel, submerged it in soapy water after dinner with the dishes. She and my younger sister went to dinner at my grandparent’s—spaghetti and a little red wine—wearing the ring in front of my grandmother, bringing it back to its first home. I think that was where she lost the diamond. 


        At Christmas, I took the ring from its lavender dish and slipped it onto my middle finger, carried it along the coast to the city, and watched as a diamond was placed gingerly into the empty setting. I still haven’t lost the ring, although there were a few weeks where it had fallen beneath the floorboards, waiting in a heating vent. I have never told my grandmother, but I think she will laugh.   




































Rib


Sometimes, 
as I lie awake at night,
I like to reach inside myself, 
and snap off a rib. 


I could whittle it down into a point:
sharp like a knife, 
ready to carve. 


I could fashion it into another,
born of my side,
cast off into the lonely world. 


I could crush it into dust,
Scattered into the wind,
Like ashes drifting from a pyre.


But will I remember it
when it’s gone?
Will I feel the ache,
the empty cavity, the gruesome hole?


Perhaps I will fill it
Plant flowers to grow.
But what if the vines grow too strong
And wrap around my ribs
And reach out
And strangle my heart?


So, perhaps I will catch a snake
and slip it inside
fangs to protect me
coiled to strike.
But what if its venom 
seeps into my blood
and it sheds me
like another skin?


Perhaps I will fill it with dreams,
but no --
dreams have an emptiness of their own.


So I reach back inside
and return the rib. 
And I fall asleep. 
















































When I finally meet Death


When I finally meet Death
He is not cold 
Like I expected.
He is fat. 
And warm and supple 
Ripe with the fruits of his labor. 


He laughs as he sweeps souls
From one world to the next.
And his laugh is like honey
Sweet and slow
Dripping down his chin.  


He is wealth, he is extravagance.
He is rich from his trade.
The world has given 
A harvest of plenty.


When I finally meet Death
I am not afraid 
Like I expected.
And I ask him: 
What will come next?
And he says:
What came before.
























… but can I still come home? 


It bubbles under the skin of the black and white 
wallpaper wrapping the front halls entrance. 
Sweetness festers under the floorboards of 
your mothers living room. It doesn’t stain, 
Just lingers in the air
Stagnant.


Whispers scream the truth over dinners
Plated for five but seating six. Tired 
Eyes serve from jeweled hands not held
For a decade. The heat is kept on during summer,
Closeting the flame
Passionless. 


It smiles behind the glass of systematically
Framed and hung family portraits. Old duvets
weep from separate bedrooms as the 
Flowers are never allowed to die. They’re 
Slaughtered outside these walls
Replaced. 


Shadows walk the backyard gardens in 
Silence. Paired frogs sit closely to watch their
Tadpoles learn how to breathe without water.
Envy burns the grass brown but rain cleanses
The arson pristine 
Perfect. 


It yells “I love you” until the mirror finally 
Breaks, coughs red pride all over the floor.
Secrets that were never promised crawl from
Behind the crown moldings and into your mouth. 
You suck and choke on 21 lackluster years
Alone. 






Good Mourning
There is nothing wrong
With minty toothpaste until
It meets orange juice.


Never meant to mix
And God, when they touch it’s
Fucking disgusting.






























































Like the Sun


she is like the sun he says
(and that is why
he loves her) 
does she remember those smoky lines
drawn across haze-ridden skies 
the rising dust in
sultry southern heat where she sits 
sideways
on a scrappy bicycle, my father in 
front, his fingers curled around 
metal handlebars. shrouded
by some all-encompassing glamour—perhaps 
it is hers, and hers alone
(because she is the sun)
moving across fractured concrete sidewalks, cramped stones behind
broken arches, dripping rain, curved around
silvery window bars. there is 
nothing
there now, only a layer
of dust, sinter settled slowly across city streets, and surely
no sun 
she must have taken
it with her, offered it to a
child, her child
and how she falters when
I refuse






















BC Haikus


Eagle


Once flew high overhead
Wings spread, echoing freedom
Trapped in golden shell



Library


A lifetime of knowledge
But no answer as to why
I can not focus



Dining Hall


Thought I was hungry
But then I saw you serving
Gross chicken again



Million Dollar Stairs


I finally climbed them
From the bottom to the top
Where is my money?



Gasson


Bong...bong...bong...bong...bong…
bong...bong...bong...bong...bong…bong...bong.
It is twelve o’clock.












Guangzhou, 1985 – America, present


this is what I know of
heady afternoons in the glow
of a humid twilight where she sleeps 
a woven bamboo pillow beneath ropes 
of dark hair, damp tendrils curled 
the faint click of the metal door
when he comes back


streams of sunlight pooling
on ashen carpet, across the thick
comforter tucked under her chin
eyelids fluttering as I trace letters
on a plastic tablecloth
voices reverberating through
white wood. his voice echoes
her eyes are open 
and he loves her, it is true


what I know
is possibly nothing but
fabrication, sliced across
raised voices and implausible reconciliation
the one time I saw her, legs curled
on the floral loveseat
waiting, I thought, for the world
to begin rotating again
and even now:
I would not want
to be them
















Thomas and the Karyotype 


“Thomas, called Didymus, one of the Twelve, was not with them when Jesus came.” (Jn 20:24) 
Didymus: derived from the Greek didymos, meaning “twin” or “double.”


I am not the hero of the skeptic. 
Have you ever felt his wasteland in your soul?


You could never feel it at all—the static screen, the senseless Novocain, 
a sweet high giggle of denial.


No, I was the child of Doubt, my daughter, 
differing on indispensable genes—


see the weakened sugars linking helix to helix, 
faltering in the slight microbial breeze;


Doubt—that is, love confounded by its object—
pulling apart the scroll in every cell


and souring organelles—though every one tries. 
Every atom tries to write itself aright again,


to find and fix the fatal locus 
where the question leaves the answer unexpressed.


The problem recessed into chromosomal comfort so small
you would think I couldn’t feel it at all


though it split me in two—
gave me skin that needed touch, eyes that had to watch, else could not believe.


Why shouldn’t it be Doubt breaks us 
in horrible haploids, down to the bases?


It is a loss of mingling, combination,
dear chiasmus, crossing maxims dear.


I got my diagnosis from my Second Thomas,
I got my diagnosis in the mirror:


Fatal?  I asked,
In how many cases? How soothe, how cure? 


Autoimmune? Genetic?—or did I touch
a chemical once?


How long can I live 
before I’m unwritten in two, 


a doubting me, a doubting you, 
your senses at my throat, my faith at yours? 


Must we take blood?—and Whose?—
and where to prick, with what results? 


What will I see?
Can we kill Doubt before Doubt kills Me?


He told me: I am Didymus,
We’re same, except there’s two of us. 


Your pain is mine—we have two minds
and twice the same unfit solutions. 


But two’s too many for a soul,
so we’ll perish till we are 


a single cell, a single side,
a sole relief. And since we are 


the same, we wept our matching tears
for one another’s unbelief.






























Stargazing in Persia
        
Go to the square and tell me if he’s still there,
the body ever present in my mind:
one of the Twelve they clubbed the other day,
stretched in the dust like a map
I couldn’t read,
whom no one had taken away.


Go see there mangled
Jude Thaddeus’s back so blackly bruised
it minded me of heaven,
dark and twisted before the earth was born, 
vacant violent purple-blues
in galaxies of flesh,
a knotted sky swelled with blood and bone.


Now he doesn’t cry—
there’s wordless desperation scrawled 
on his skin robbed and robeless,
where clotted fire links his endless nebulas,
where in his face there burns a cosmic
sympathy for night.


I must’ve known his bruises all my life.


Go search and see
if evening falls on the martyr-corpse,
my thoughts revolving on him 
as bands on planets;
tell me if the sunset dyes his skin 
to make his violets shine hope-green,
tell me if his open eye still dances 
like the first horizon’s star,
like a nascent blazing set upon the dark.


















Sticker 


Tristan really wants the nippleless Tarzan sticker. He’s never wanted anything this badly, and I can’t imagine I’ve ever wanted anything this badly, too. It’s not like they’d let me take it, though. But still, have you ever looked your child in the eyes, their eyes soaked with tears, and told them that no, you wouldn’t do that harmless thing to make them happy?
My son loves fast food. It’s okay. He has a fast metabolism and seeing the smile on his face after he opens his bag to find a toy warms my heart. It’s what makes children worth it. 
Every time we order, Tristan sees the “promotions” on the windows of the McDonald’s. They’re stickers, usually, they’re some kind of car with flames along the side or a cartoon from one of the shows he watches. This time we see Tarzan stuck onto the windows, Jane, too, and some gorillas. Tristan takes a special liking. Tarzan was the first movie he saw, he’s still young, and for some reason, decides that this air bubble-infested McDonald’s decoration is what he wants most in the world. 
“Can we buy it?” he asks.
I look back at him. I’m stopped because we just ordered our food. 
“No,” I say to him. “That belongs to McDonald’s.”
“But why can’t we just ask them for it?”
He’s genuine, and since I know they’ll say no, I decide they can take the blame today. He doesn’t take “no” very well usually, but he’s four years old. I can’t get mad at him.
We pull up to the first window. 
“That’ll be eleven dollars and sixteen cents.”
I rummage through my purse trying to find exact change. I smile up at the cashier, who can’t be older than sixteen. 
“Say, do you know if you have any of those stickers, that you put on the window, in the back? Would you be willing to sell one?”
        He blinks at me. I’m not sure whether it’s because he doesn’t really understand what I’m talking about or if he’s just shocked that someone actually asked to buy one of those things. They’re junk, I know. I don’t disagree with that. I feel like I remember seeing one of Tarzan’s nipples peeled off.
        “I’ll go ask my manager.” 
        He’s gone for a minute or two. I actually forgot to give him the money, but he’ll come back and get it. I glance by at Tristan and he’s smiling up at me, obviously optimistic. He really thought we would be going home with something other than a Happy Meal and a plastic toy. 
        The sixteen-year-old comes back. 
        “Sorry, we can’t sell those to you.” He doesn’t seem very sorry if I’m being honest, but I wouldn’t have been sorry either. I’m surprised he even checked. 
        “Thanks,” I say. I turn to look at Tristan, who’s pouting. He looks like he’s about to cry, but he hasn’t started yet, thank God. I think if he did I would give in. I could give in. He doesn’t cry that much, it wouldn’t hurt. I don’t think it’d help, either, though. Tristan needs to learn that life doesn’t always hand you the things you want. Sometimes you have to work for it. Or sometimes even you have to accept what you have and just say yes. Yes, you’ll marry him. Even if you don’t truly feel it. Sometimes it’s the only option you feel that you have.
        He starts crying, but we’re already on the road, heading away from McDonald’s. I tell him sorry, but we can’t turn back. He sniffles but stops crying, and I think he understands. He isn’t crying, he’s just sad. And I’d take a sad child over a screeching one any day. His sister was the former, unfortunately. She’s older now. She said she wanted to leave Connecticut as soon as she could, and did just that. She says college is treating her well.
        I keep driving until we get home. The sun’s set--it’s getting closer to Tristan’s bedtime by now, and luckily he seems a bit tired out. If there’s one thing I can count on, it’s that he tires out quickly. A fit usually means he’s done for the day, and even though he was relatively calm tonight, he worked himself up enough to have his eyes struggle to stay open. 
        We work our way up to his bedroom and after he brushes his teeth I tuck him into bed. He’s past the age for a bedtime story, or so he says, and so even though I don’t want to I shut the door gently while his eyes stay glued to the ceiling. I can still see the spots on his face from where his tears tried. I walk down the stairs--Tom isn’t home, he’s still on his business trip--and I sit downstairs and turn the television on. 
        Friends is on. It’s the episode where Monica thinks Chandler is sexually attracted to sharks, so she puts Jaws on the TV to turn him on. I don’t know if it makes me a bad person, but I don’t think I would ever do that for Tom. I wouldn’t do a lot of things for him, but I don’t think that makes me a bad wife. It certainly doesn’t make me a bad mother, but does Tristan know that? Sarah doesn’t, I think. She left for a reason. She wanted to leave. Will Tristan leave, too?
        I grab car keys from the kitchen counter. Am I really doing this? I mean, I am,  I’ve grabbed the keys so it’s too late now. Once you make a commitment, it’s rude to back out. I told Sarah that so I should tell myself that. I’m not a hypocrite. This isn’t wrong. 
        The door’s open now and I’m locking it behind me. Tristan’s asleep, he’s safe. This is a nice neighborhood. The car door clicks as I unlock it. It’s Tom’s car, not mine, so if there’re cameras they’ll see it’s his car. Tristan won’t notice. He’s asleep. He won’t even hear the car leave. I’m also not even wearing a mask, so the camera wouldn’t see me. I’m too far in. I also don’t own any ski masks, but why would I? I don’t ski. 
        I sit down in the driver’s seat and my heart starts to race. It hit me before that I was about to rob from McDonald’s, and sure that may seem stupid since it is, but I’m really about to go and rob a McDonald’s for a sticker. 
After a sharp turn, I pull into the parking lot. It’s nearly empty, only two cars are here from what I can see, and the lights are still on inside. Of course, the lights would be on. I’m such an idiot. It’s only nine. It’s nine on a Friday night, so obviously they’d still be open. I just wanna smack myself because damn, I’m really about to walk into a McDonald’s and scrape a sticker off the window with my cold fingers. 
I slam the door shut, not thinking, but at this point, I’m going to get caught anyway. If someone sees me before I actually try to steal anything I can stop. They can’t arrest me for looking at a sticker. That’s not a crime. Stealing one is, sure, but I haven’t done it yet. I don’t have to do it. 
One step forward. One more. I can see the same sixteen-year-old from before at the window and he’s handing a woman her bag of food. His hair’s poking out of his yellow visor and I swear some hair probably jumped out from his scalp and into her fries, but it’s fine because that’s not my food. 
I feel like I’m practically running now and I know I’m not but I really feel like I am because one second I’m at the doors of Tom’s car and one second later I’m inside the McDonald’s, and my back is to the teenage cashier. I spin around to make sure he doesn’t see me, but he does, and he’s staring at me, and I can tell that he recognizes me, but he seems truly confused at what to do right now. I’m a forty-year-old woman peeling a Tarzan sticker off of a McDonald’s window. His mouth is wide open, mine’s tensed up because I’m so nervous, but before I know it I’m barreling into the door and running out from the McDonald’s. I don’t even check to see if he’s following me. Maybe he’ll chase after me. Can he drive? I doubt it. But maybe. I’m in the driver’s seat and there’s no one around me. I toss Tarzan into the passenger seat, no seatbelt, and take off.
Oh my God.
I did that. I stole the sticker from the McDonald’s. I kidnapped Tarzan. He doesn’t move in the seat next to me, even when I come to a full stop at the light. It’s nice. It’s like I’m not alone in the car, but nobody’s complaining to me, or asking for something, or saying I’m going too slow, or ignoring me whenever I talk.
I’m home now, and so is Tarzan. I carry him through the doors, cradled in my arms like a small child, and I tiptoe up to Tristan’s room. He’ll be surprised in the morning and sure, I won’t get to see the smile on the face when he notices Tarzan plastered on his wall, but it’ll be worth it when he races down the stairs and comes bouncing into the kitchen to tell me about what showed up. I’ll pour him a bowl of cereal and smile because yes, that really is so cool, and we’ll spend the day talking about how fun Tarzan was, and we’ll keep talking until Tom comes home, and everything will be fine. 


Ode to the Raccoon Who Eats My Trash


It is the split down the spine of my green, 
Newton-tattooed garbage bin 
that holds my rotting, expired chicken breasts, 
forgotten eggshells and 
metallic scraps that were once seltzer 


You have ripped the hole with your sharp, 
candy-corn-like chompers,
big enough for your furry body
to squeeze through just enough
for when I peak my head out of the kitchen window, 
I see your stripped tail hoist like a surrender flag  


A child bobbing for apples, 
you move in and out of the Jack-O-Lantern carving,
moments away from finding tonight’s dinner
Will it be my Tuesday’s lunch of orzo 
 that ends in your grimy paws? 
Or perhaps my Sunday Brunch 
of wheat toast with raspberry preserves? 


My housemate says he hears you 
every night
from his first floor bedroom window
where tops of the green and blue plastic cylinders 
look like mountain peaks when he sits in bed


From the third floor, 
I am never lucky enough 
to hear you as I flick through tv channels, 
but I know you are there 


The sprinkling of Coke cans, raspberries, 
and cheddar cheese on my door steps 
have stopped taking me by surprise 
each morning as I unlock the door
that separates me from you










Josh


Hangs
His fingers gripping the edges of 
The balcony, their tips
White with pressure.


Light combs through 
Mahogany hair that plasters a face
Where two dull angels weep.
Where limp, lifeless lips
Hang over a forgotten smile
And sorrow wades in rivers that
Rush down ruby hills.


Below him, a crowd 
Lingers, listening as the wind 
Serenades them with its sweet songs of spring.
He cannot hear them
But they hear him.


“I don’t want to live anymore!”
His screech lurks, haunting the air,
Disenchanting the people below and hanging still as 
They scatter away


Teachers push past 
“Go to class,” they spit
“Don’t say a word,” they growl 
I walk away but the boy’s cries still stab


Back inside, the halls have become jungles.
Leopards with Adidas paws
Speed past blood-red lockers 
On the hunt for someone to tell
For someone who will listen 


While I enter a classroom 
Lousy with the laughter 
Of boys and girls 
Ignorant of the dark realities 
That prowl just outside the door


Silently, I take my seat 
Next to Josh’s sister, waiting
Until the teachers come
Until that darkness slithers beyond the door
And comes to get her




















































































9 weeks after his death


trails of black mascara crawl 
inching their way 
down
her 
face
t i p t o e i n g across ivory skin
scattering themselves in a 
wild tangle of hair as red
as the solo cup 
she clutches
as if
it were
him


she raises the cup to her lips
and once more electricity runs 
        down 
        her 
        throat
a current ordered
to shock


she can feel it creeping
slithering its way into her blood
a kind of energy
without force


“more” 


her legs are corpses now
walking without souls
unable to be directed
as she’s forgotten
what’s left
            what’s right
faceless voices speak to her in riddles
she can’t solve
and people-like images
take her cup
lie her down
and watch her falsified reality 
fades to darkness


It Didn’t Taste the Same


Seven songs through the five hour trip 
we made a second stop. Turning around on 
a one lane mountain made my skin singe 
but the peaches were a salve. You 
fed me juicy bites as we sped, deciding 
fresh peach ice cream wasn’t exciting enough 
you mixed in chunks of peaches, skinned and 
bitten from our stash. They were meant to 
last the ride but survived barely longer
than my mom's rhubarb in the snow. Plants 
fill the grated holes in my heart and 
that’s why - the day I tried to shred our love - 
I brought you a cactus. Home Depot is 
a cavern where I’ve cried on paint chips and 
called out, waiting for the echo 
of peaches on lips and juices 
on seats and tires on gravel - sliding. 
Why did you name the cactus Peaches?






































to my girl, now gone


I drip with sweat in the midday sun, 
though she doesn’t seem to mind. Tracing 
her fingers across my condensation 
she makes clear a patch on my side and 
stares through me. I swell with pride 
when she asks for more. Years later, 
I’ll be the taste to remind her
 
of summer days with ancient neighbors; 
of playing in the garden and grooming their dog;
of their sloping yard and the immense creek. 
Sometimes she would take me to the water’s edge 
and sip as she dipped her toes. I remember 


the day she poured me out, an offering 
to the fragile fish who were thirsty, 
a tithe for the tide, meant to share her joy 
and expand mine. I mixed with the water, 


saw crawfish and tadpoles and more. 
Shared my pulp with the shore and 
my sugar with the silt and let myself settle 
to the bottom of this shrine. I stared 
up through a glittering new window, 
warmed myself with the view. A child, 
curious, sweet, unceasing. 
Empty glass in hand, she turns from me
and clamors up the slope in search of more.














morning routine


Self-loathing is fleece, to be
slipped into early on the coldest days. 
Comforting, known, surprisingly 


durable. It’s been washed and wrung 
and hung to dry and even though mom 
thinks it’s unbecoming, I can’t stop wearing


it. Today my face is fog as I lean across
reality to pop zits in the bathroom mirror. 
Who is betrayed when toothpaste spatters,


misses the brush? White flecks on steam.
Given one chance at functionality, 
I still miss. But, bedraggled and brazen


there is strength to arise in the morning, 
even not knowing when purpose will come. 


































I swear,


every day I feel 
more and more
on the verge of tears.


I hold back the floodgate, 
try to seal the tap tight, it won’t go
righty-tighty, I know—


I turn and I turn, my head 
and my eyes, I beg on my knees 
of the self, in its spite;


but see, the lilacs quiver in the breeze;
in humid air they loosen and unbind and twist,
bearing a sweet scent,


or a thrush soars high among the trees,
his song trickling in through my ears, oiling 
the stubborn spigot, which gives in


and spins left, I think,  
plenty of tears left, and I think        
a leak is beginning to spring. 








































A Taste


Far too many books 
on the shelf in the shop; 


they’re staring me down 
from their ledges.


Gilt volumes of Judaica wink,
the glint of gold edges


inviting, but which dish to choose
in this banquet? I’m already full


of the heaps of anthologies 
on whom I heap apologies,


because there are too many 
good poems to read them all through. 


Every month, another slew 
of well-designed covers 


trendy fonts on pleasant colors,
and someone’s life’s work,


side-by-side with a fruity graphic novel—
a tragedy for my distracted eye. 


When I go home with some collection,
some tongue-tangle of short stories,


another revolution’s meal, good for nothing—
it will be but a nibble,


hardly a meaningful sample 
of the pages I’ll never taste.﻿1. party at my house but the only music is the lord of the rings soundtrack
[PB][JG][BR]
i read the lord of the rings
while listening to the lord of the rings soundtrack
damn...
man just went to the studio and said
i'm howard shore bitch
here are the slaps**




**slaps |  noun  |  music you can go dummy hard to


























































2. Golden Coins
[SG][PB] GL
 
I know I am not the first
to fill my eyes
with the hot orange blaze,
 
the deep blush of the treeline—
as passionate as daylilies in August,
but whole rooftops of them.
 
Each year anew, they enchant me 
and I am only one man,
and how am I to resist
the sweeping canopy?
 
The hill waves her elegant fingers,
shudders with a full-bodied roar, dons
her chain-mail of golden coins,
all little gems in the great net. 
 






































3. The Wedge
[PB] [PC] GL


Out, out—beyond the static picture frame
Landscape, a wedge sits on the horizon
Line. Obscured, silent in the quiet day.
Like a blip on the canvas screen
It sits unnoticed.


It spires out of the wooded tree line,
Which snakes across the window pane.


The wedge breaks into the air, a subtle skewer, a shrike beak.


It lurks there
Just out of arm’s reach


Like a haunted mansion, an October house, the tower awaits,
Wrought with anxiety.
Modern architecture pierces time and becomes
Victorian, when seen from afar.


The night lights up. A beacon.


The dark clouds turn to bright fog, emanating
Out of the tower, the blasting star
Explodes the night away.


The mystical fixture in the night sky,
Gatsby’s Green Light,
Turned dark and landlocked.


How must it look from up close?
From here, bright letters stream across the night
And refract through the pane


That wedge doesn’t look so bright
In the daylight reason.
It turns back into a casino


just out of view, but still in sight.


4. Juhu
[PB] [PC] GL


I haven’t slept in almost two days, so I’m doing it now.


My stomach was in a                 knot
right for dinner
right for kulfi at the temple
right for coconut water
right for an evening stroll
On Juhu sand


Many Bollywood movie stars live in Juhu, and my cousin is one of them.
Divya walks my family down to the beach
And buys us each a coconut from a man with dirty feet.
As we start moving down the narrow stretch,
I stray away, just a little closer to the edge.
In this waking dream, the sky turns blue.


To my left stands the draping tree line, 
A Partition of swaying palm fronds,
Patrolled by a platoon of feral dogs: evidence of the metropolis beyond.
I imagine studios and slums, monuments and morgues, running on behind the
curtain.


To my right, under thick smog and the dying embers of a sapphire sun,
Stinking foam and brine emerge,
Marooned on this pariah’s cove, too impure for ebony waves,
Stained by the setting sun’s pale moonlight.


I keep walking along
This tract of coarse ground and wet trash
The entire world at my feet
The past blowing on the back of my neck.


How did I get here?
So far from Dunkin Donuts and brown Boston snow on tarmac


I’m on a disparate plane.
My education–
Through smells of incense and spices
Through sights of brown and blue faces
And Salt Marches
And map lines
–Couldn’t prepare me for my Birth-Rite.


Sleepless, I’m an invader in my own mind.
Peering through the looking glass
A colonizer passing the Gateway to an alien world.


Donald Trump in the Taj
Bombay Star and Crown Jewels
My motherland, the wrong side for British Raj
Lives blown off in light suitcases with everything to lose


Just as sea salt and beef tallow made my grandparents refugees,
And made Divya a star,
Those men–
Square-rigged and smallpocked–
Found a New Indian,
And called me an American.


They tied this tired knot, boiling in sweet dairy and tropical fluid
On the other side of my world,
In a trendy beachside neighborhood,
With my tween awkwardness and my stupid coconut,
I’m standing over a pile of bloated corpses
And shattered dreams.


It’s a foreign sun setting over the lapping waves,
A heavier air filling my lungs,
A sharper earth between my toes,
Than I have ever known before.


Reading slowly the lines drawn in the sand
Forever a stranger in my own land.








5.  The City Impasse
[SG] [PC][PB]


The Prudential Center sprawls out 
massive, now, in front of me


buildings that adorn 
the city's heights. Spirals flame up from underground—lit 
eternal somber blue. An entombed stone. 
An embedded letter. 


Let us climb, now, the road to hope.


All the roads lay behind me faded 
into one long playlist. An endless tread
of repeated patterns, playing on
and on and on


Computerized, I ran through.
Cogs turned and propelled my legs.
Circuits broke and zoned me out.


But at the silk sylvan ribbon, 
the fallen achievement lays
—the finish line—where trees broke through the street
and buildings blended into a reflected sky,
there I won, I summited 


the road.












6. Unseasonal Blooms
[SG] [PC] GL


A small girl with a horsehair brush
held loosely in her small palm
and laden with dazzling yellow
has run through the woods
at the mouth of the stream.
 
She has used the same hue
as she does in March,
when egg-yolk bells of daffodils
break through the snow,
when walls of forsythias burst
into bows and frills.
 
The subjects of her carefree hand
glow into the understory,
golden branches over thickets
of weary, dusty leaves, quivering
in the new winds, waiting
 
in the warm light of dusk
shining from across the water
to drift away, to be unmoored.
















7. by falling we learn to go safely
[PC] [SG]  LF
“It is either that, or it is me. It is your choice.” 
Daiyu didn’t know what to say, so all she did was sit. The state knew what was right. After all, the rules were in place for a reason, people were starving, and she should’ve known better. Her village, her country, would not make it through if people like her did not cooperate. Knowing this, she nodded and let her head hang down before her for a brief moment. She then lifted her head up, looking directly into her mother’s eyes. 
Her words kept crossing Daiyu’s mind, pounding at the threshold of her consciousness as she quietly walked the path across the riverbeds. The sky was abnormally clear, with stars dancing above her and the moon, sturdy as ever, illuminating the path in front of her. Usually in her village the sky was covered. There was less smog there than in the cities, but pollution can never truly be tamed, and so it spread mercilessly to the countryside. 
She quickly looked down. The white blanket covering the basket was moving. She fiddled with the blanket and eventually switched the weight of the basket to her other arm. 
Her mother and her had bought the blanket from the market. It was knit rather poorly, bought from the seedy woman with tangled black hair and seething brown eyes who always had an odd smile on her face. It was frayed all along the edges, with knots already forming around the middle, but it swaddled the length of the basket comfortably and so it did its job. The seething woman always attempted to overcharge them, this time claiming its quality suited a king, saying they were incredibly lucky to buy it for such a fair price. Of course with her mother’s equally cold gaze the price was brought down. When they finally left, Daiyu heard the woman spit on the ground in the place they had been seconds before. In the many times they did business with her, the woman always ended up bringing the cost down. In return they always bought her items. It was a relationship none of them wanted to continue, but none of them were willing to end, knowing they had something to offer each other. 
Daiyu didn’t like the seething woman. Her coldness frightened her. She also didn’t like traveling at night. It was odd for her to not hear the constant revs of the motorbikes starting their trek into the city, the clanging and clatter of dishes hitting a table in the shops, and the old men boisterously chatting on the steps of their houses. Now the town was almost silent. She was only comforted by the light of the moon.
One thing that didn’t disappear was the constant buzzing of the mosquitos. She was careful to only move one arm while swatting them away, keeping her other arm almost perfectly still with the basket tucked near her arm. 
Most nights at this time she would already be fast asleep, worn from the day at work. She almost couldn’t remember a time she had been up so late. Maybe when she was younger. When she was younger. Yes, when she was seven she often stayed up late completing her work for school. She spent most of her time during the late afternoon coming back from the city to her home. Her mother would watch her as she came back into the house, asking if she had finished her work on the journey back. She never had, but she always pretended as if she did. Later in the night she would light a candle near her bed and spend the night hovering near the small thing, scribbling away with flourishes mimicking the soothing push and pull of waves. Not long after, her mother decided her brother would take over her studies, as he had finally come of age and her family couldn’t afford both of their educations. She would work and he would go to school. 
She came upon the village beside hers. The buildings were nearly identical to her own, many harboring the same scrawled writings of the state, shimmering like blood in the moonlight. One is best.
She quickened her pace. 
After passing through another village, she walked past a shop she recognized. It was a shop she worked at when she was younger. She remembered sweeping the tiny place in complete humidity, trying to ignore the water building on her forehead and the pain in her back from bending over. The shopkeeper there was ruthless and old, but somewhat admirable for his sternness.
Here. She arrived.
She looked across at the white building. It was guarded by a simple wall with only a small gate enclosing the perimeter. It was smaller than she imagined, and way more tidy. 
It looked quite similar to Junxi’s house. When they had first met, he was standing under a cherry blossom tree. He was looking at some box, holding it up to the sun. She was only passing by, but he turned his head and caught her staring. He beckoned her over and she hesitantly came closer until she stopped at the gate. It was only the gate that stood in between them. He asked her to help him read what was on the box, but the writing was too small for her to decipher. She apologized, but he still smiled. He walked back into his yard, plucked an unopened cherry blossom, and placed it in her palm through the gate. His kindness made her never want to leave his side. When she married him, she didn’t think she had ever been as happy before. 
Their wedding ceremony was lovely. She wore a stitched red dress, embroidered with gold flowers and swirling petals. They kneeled next to each other before their small altar. They gave respect to their family, first praying for Junxi’s ancestors and his departed parents, then for her own lineage and her mother, and then for their descendants. They wished for a son who would be happy and healthy, and who would grow up hardworking and strong.
She looked down at the basket.
It was against her judgement. Her mother told her not to. Her mother said it would make everything worse, and that was the last thing she wanted. Make everything worse. No, she really didn’t want that. But her impulses, everything in her body needed to look. Right after everything happened, her mother had taken it away, careful to keep it in a place away from her. She had had to do so much just to convince her mother she could do this on her own, that she wouldn’t need her coming with her. It had been silvery sweet words that got her mother to finally ease off. It was all a lie, of course. She didn’t know why she did it, she never lied, it was against her being to lie, but she did.
She set the basket down, kneeling on the road to meet its level.
The basket showed its age clearly. It was worn and discolored from its years of holding fruit.
Daiyu’s mouth grew dry, her hands wiry and skeletal, her pulse ardently beating against her skin. She unwrapped the blanket.
And saw what her mother never wanted her to truly see. 
Her eyes were closed at first but slowly opened. She was the moon. She had a circular face and wide irises swimming in ponds of black sky. Daiyu felt her eyes burn and reached to hold her. 
Her skin was so soft.
All it would take was one decision. She could leave her village, try to move deep in the heart of the city. She would have to leave her husband and her family, it would be the only way to keep their integrity. She could get an apartment, dangling above the skyline, and get a new job where she could wear pearls that graced her neck. It would be an amazing life, she would cook for her, clean for her, all so she would have a better life than Daiyu. 
She was her daughter, her child, and she would never abandon her. But she wasn’t ready to sacrifice her mother yet either. 
It is either that, or it is me.
How could her mother force her to do this? How could her country? She couldn’t help but question what she was doing and why. She knew what had to be done, but looking here, looking at eyes full of stars cradled snugly in her arms, what was she supposed to do?
She knew her own fate, and she knew what it meant if she tried to escape it, especially for her husband, for her family. The village officials would come. It meant fines, destruction of their house, public shame. Disgrace. Embarrassment. Isolation. How could she do that to her family?
And the state. The state knew what it was doing. She had to put her faith in the state. It was protecting its people, serving them in the only way it could. 
She had no choice. 
Daiyu set her daughter back in the basket, tears inundating onto the road. 
She had no choice. 
Daiyu folded the blanket over her, bringing herself down to kiss her one last time. She left the perimeter of the white building, walking back along the path she had come. She walked past silent houses, dark with only a sliver of prevailing light leaving streaks on the tiled roofs, past small brick bridges bringing together two sides of a village, and small red lanterns lining the windows, swaying ever so slightly in the wind. She walked into her house in a daze. She took off her shoes and entered her bedroom. She slid into bed next to Junxi, forcing herself to stay silent and sleep. That night, she dreamed of falling cherry blossoms twirling in the wind next to a river, of falling stars wildly shooting across the night sky, energetic and happy in their path. That night she dreamed of a girl with a face of the moon, smiling, staring directly into Daiyu’s eyes, laughing as she swung away into the night. 
She had no choice.










































8. To Tidy Up this Heartbreak in Five Parts
[PC]  LF [PB]


I
These butterflies have sharp wings.
I let them slice me open
as long as they still fly.


II
In a bar in Quebec there is a
boy that looks like you wrapped
around a girl that looks like me.


III
I want to write a poem that
forensics couldn’t trace back to you,
that doesn’t have your fingerprints all over it.


IV
At 6 AM I wake up with you
stinging on my tongue, like
I’ve bitten evergreen.


V
My pen traces your name over
and over until it runs out of ink and I realize
I’ve been writing about something else all along.


























9. If You Love Me, Wake Me 
[PC] LF [PB]


Six AM must be your witching hour– 
three different times you’ve woken me up 
to the heat of your hands 
coiling around my wrist. 

I don’t know if I should
chalk it up to the makeshift serotonin
I swallow from prescription pill bottles


or put my faith in the superstition that says maybe
you’re dreaming of me too. 






















































10. Defiance
EKS [BR] [PC]
Wordless reactions,
we’re up late discussing
the ways we hope we will die,
with black holes and washed out
hazy blurred ways our minds work
that we will never understand, as if a
war goes on between the walls of our heads,
goes on like waxing and waning and
warnings from authorities who don’t
even know who we are or
where our thoughts go
when we’re
without
the right
words.




























11. Hard-to-Admits 
EKS [PC] LF
I
When my therapist leans back in her armchair
and asks me about the hospital, I don’t tell her 
that I wish I would lose it again
so I could hide out there for a while.


II
Sometimes when I’m driving home down 271, 
and my headlights are the only ones
reflecting on the lane lines, I can hear
the first boy I ever loved telling me to go faster.


III
It doesn’t matter how many love letters you write 
yourself if you look in the mirror and consider 
all the things you’d take a knife to. 


IV
I still imagine the hands of a man I’ve never met
on the parts of my body I hate, 
that my limbs might be whole once
sunk into his own.


V
I used to stockpile lethal trinkets in hiding places,
sewing needles, extra-strength Tylenol, razor blades–
but I feel indifferent towards graves now.




























12. Before communism came to my country,
EKS [PC] LF
I used to walk beneath arches
carved with stone angels. Pillars stood like guard dogs, 
friendly only to those who belonged at their base.


Oak trees were in residence along worn cobblestone, 
and my daughters, not yet teens, wove through them like yarn 
through a loom on our way to buy a week’s worth of bread. 


Church bells called to nearby cathedrals, 
every hour on the hour– the steady heartbeat of home
resonating against the walls of damp alleys.  


In winter, our children wore long wool coats.
My husband and I, leather gloves to break the wind. 


After communism came to my country,
I stitched burlap bags from chicken feed into skirts and shorts,
preparation for the first American summer. 












































13. Moonlit Memories
EKS [BR] [PC]
“The moon looks rather bright tonight,”
You weren’t even looking at it, gaze upon the waterline.
“I try not to look anymore.
There’s too many stories
held in the stars today.”
A second, just a second;
would it hurt?


I’m submerged by thoughts
I shouldn’t think about anymore.
You can’t see me anymore.
Your hand fastens my lips
and it’s silent.






















































14. Praise for My Mitochondria
[PC] LF [PB]


Praise for my mitochondria, for its mangled ribosomes and pyruvate.
Praise for my mitochondria, for the web of women it’s woven.
Praise for my mitochondria, for the collective motherhood it’s gifted me. 


My maternal line extends
behind me, a revisionary rope of umbilical cords 
transcribes a sequence of shoulders to lean on–
and I lean. 


Praise for the mother whose knuckles have scabbed over,
praise for the mother who swallowed pain like it was pasta, who made sure
there were no left-overs. Praise for the mother whose words are always a lullaby,
praise for the mother who brings hope home in grocery bags. 
Praise for the mother who’s mothered children she’s never met
by way of mitochondria. 


The adenosine triphosphate of the familial unit, 
fueling us to keep functioning.
It has traversed my lineage by
waves of blood and spit and remains
lifegiving. So


praise for my mitochondria that has laid the bricks of my lineage,
for the women passing on family secrets locked in a cage of chromosomes,

and to my mother’s
mother’s, and her mother’s
mother’s, and her mother’s
mother’s, and her’s


























15. Erie is an Ocean
[PC] LF [PB]


The light of evening bounces off Lake Erie. 
From the edge of the city, you might mistake it for the ocean, 
imagine it’s grander than it is. Some ways behind me,
a mother makes a scavenger hunt of her pantry, 
scrambles to pull dinner out of empty boxes. 
On the West Side, 10-year-olds attempt soccer, kick grass 
off the field and peel clementines 
on side lines. Across the Industrial Valley, 
a rusted shopping cart is wedged tightly
on a street corner. What normally looks out of place
has woven itself into the canvas of this city, 
the clumsy construction, how Shaker melts 
into the East entrance of downtown– 
its scarce pinpoints of pride. 


Voinovich Park sits pretty tonight, 
lets me pretend that what faces my back
is a suspiciously sparkling beach town. 
















































16. lobos marinos
[JG] [PC] GL
the sea wolf
snarls, mandible
ajar and cavernous,
all broad boned
white knives
jutting out
jettisoned amidst
dried and salted
blood clinging
against a clammy,
carnivorous maw.






















































17. The Dock at Padanaram Harbor - after W.B. Yeats’s “The Lake Isle of Innisfree”
[BR] [PC] LF


A tempest blows hard from the north,
Conjuring a vicious surf capped with ghoulish spittle. 
Prospero bears no blame for Poseidon’s force, 
His hands lashing piers with intent to whittle. 


Yet the dock holds firm beneath my feet,
It neither creaks, nor rattles, nor breaks–
Though the waves do–those monoliths of silver sheet, 
That with steady hammer Poseidon makes. 


So when God or man dare test me, 
Or seek to bludgeon virgin stone, 
Know the dock held firm beneath my feet, 
For I, and I alone. 














































18. bodies in the street
[PC]  LF PB


in the poor periphery we watch the bodies
pile up, a scattering of guayaquileñan blood
on blistering pavement boiling under the sun


the stench of death hangs in the heat of tropical
temperatures with no hope of relief as cardboard
coffins line streets where life once flourished


you are a doctor, they cry as their city sobs
under the weight of the world collapsing in,
please you have to help us, we’re dying


music leaves the streets as the beleaguered city
weeps for what it has lost, for bodies left missing,
unrecognizable; rife in the cataclysm of the port


corpses that were lovers and mothers and brothers
find themselves left in wheelchairs, stacked on beds,
like sacks of papas in the waiting room of the morgue


angel maria canales asks us to be patient, to wait, to bury
dead that might not even be our own, and now we’re
left to this fate, our grief a harbinger of unthinkable death




























19. The Giant of Fries 
[PC][PB]GL
The crack of dawn hatched against the earth, spreading its light to all. It made the tips of utility poles shine, oil infused puddles sparkle, and anointed the golden arches of the great god, Mack. Perched on top of an electrical cable, Great Crow Rak’lah gazed down at the black wastes. Wrappers were dragged by the wind like tumbleweed while the ground was slashed by a myriad of bright colors.
Rak’lah remembered the day when he had mistaken the white strips of the wastes as snow patches. He was a chick then, bold, believing that he was invincible, but that was until he encountered a big-loud-one. Its putrid fumes had almost smothered his airways and it roared with the intensity of death. He ruffled his feathers to rid himself of the memory.
That was all behind him now. He had long grown accustomed to the growlings of the big-loud-ones as well as the giants that detached themselves from their chassis. All the crows by his side could boast such a feat. That was why they were here.
The sunlight above flickered as his lieutenant Sher’pa dove down to his position. “Great Rak’lah,” his lieutenant said. “Our scouts have returned with news on the enemy’s movements.”
“Speak.” The great crow intoned.
“Two giants have awakened from their street-side slumber to the scent of the god arches’ breakfast meals. They have donned on their pelts and are stalking the outskirts of the holy land. One of them still harbors the cheek injury you inflicted from days prior.”
“Good, and what of our holy Giant of Fries?”
“Scout Loj reports that the giant has woken from his slumber thirty minutes ago, we expect that he and his big-loud-one will arrive shortly.”
“Get the first and second murder squad into position and wait for my signal.”
“It will be done,” said Sher’pa, dismounting from the cable.
Rak’lah returned his gaze to the wastes. War was brewing like the dollar coffee of the arches and soon, the crow clan of Parq Sen’tral would protect their patron saint. For seven winters, the Giant of Fries had blessed his clan with food. No longer did they need to steal or fight amongst themselves, no longer did the young have to shiver through frigid nights. His clan had flourished under the gentle sausage fingers of their giant, and that debt would not be forgotten.
The muggers would pay for assaulting their saint. Feeling the currents of air course through his body, Rak’lah dismounted from his outpost and rode the wind. With the powers and responsibilities vested in him as the great crow, he would personally ensure that the muggers would never be able to do such things again.
This is for you Giant of the Fries. This is for you.














































20. please leave a message after the beep
[JG] [PC] LF


sunday sunbeam,


as tedious as it is to hand write
you letters, watching the world
burn is probably a good enough
incentive for me, but I know you
probably wouldn’t get this letter
until after what’s happening outside,
with the fires in the streets and blood
spilling from head wounds, gets worse.
voicemails at least, bypass the postal
service and I am just tired, so tired
that I’ve taken to swan watching
in your absence, since you’re across
mountain ranges and unmarked grave
sites, and god I miss you but –


I started swan watching in April, when I was
first freed from the nest, a little wobbly on
my new legs, like home wasn’t the same
as I remembered it. but there’s a lake
over by where I fill prescription after
prescription to try and reduce anxiety
that’s getting worse with the unstable
state of our nation and I – I’m – well –
I’m not quite sure what I am.


but the swans – I think I know them.
I think I could know them. there are
two of them, a perfect set, a matched
pair, a dynamic duo, a couplet – lovers.
do you remember the frog song echoing
across the marsh behind my house after
a blustering squall? when torrents come
down, drowning May flower skies in cold,
silvery gunmetal,


  sometimes I forget there’s
a world outside of the chamber of my skull
because things have just been too much
and too loud and lately I can’t concentrate
on anything except the sounds of the frogs
when I meander across splintering tree trunks
and sodden marsh floor to check on the nest,
to see if the eggs are still there, dewy, but alive.


even on my way home, head wrapped up
in fuck, they’re fine, my mind keeps
wandering to the little things. like how
Talia’s fourteen and still a hair’s breadth
under my nose, or how Maya’s braiding
my curls back, hands a little less shaky
than they were last year when she told
me it was too dark outside to get her out
of bed, and how bran looks a decade too
small with the mask on, eyes open so wide
and I can’t help but seeing someone I barely
knew squinting at me when I didn’t respond
to the call of my name for the pizza order –


I think it’s all rattling around in my head,
but the swans – the swans – they just swim.
their nest was this wide thing of water-logged
branches scavenged from the edges of boat
docks and trees reaching up and over the lake
as diesel fuel and fumes from the street drifted
in, but it’s a good nest, solid and strong enough
that it’s withstood the winds – unlike the tree
in the backroads that sits sliced in half, collapsed
on the car of those ignorant people and I felt
so bad because I thought it was just karma,
but my mother raised me better, and I’m sure
the swan in the lake and her partner are raising
the three little birds in her herd far better than I
ever would. and you’d think that with the two
of them, it’s like I’ve never been in love before.


when I see them, I think oh that’s love, like
when she prunes his feathers or he wanders off
to the other side of the lake to look for more fish
and the way that they curled around their tiny cygnet
clan. when the storm hit so hard that the rain was too
much for me to drive and I had to sit in the safety
of metal and glass as I got another notification that
the world was ending again and god can those please
stop, I really can’t take another broken heart, not
right now, not when it feels like I never got over
the first one, but I have to get up tomorrow at six
for my shift, waking with the sun, my heart bleeding –


on storming days, I really just want to fall into my
bed and let the dreams of distant snarling jungle
cats, the laughter of music and the hot, aching
sun beating down on my back lead me to a home
that isn’t here, that isn’t this and I just want to tell
you that I love you if nothing else and I miss you
and I wish you were here, frosty palms pressed
against my face and a gentle grin, ice cold boba
in one hand and a burrito in another and – oh I –


I’ll write about the swans. I think you’d like them.
































21. the night we met
[JG] GL [PC]


every single time i look at you
i think about writing poetry
on your lips the way you sung
refrains, leaving me behind
as punishment for sin stirring


beneath the expanse of my skin.
and yet, my eyes recall the perfect
halo of spun gold locks, flashing,
gilded in the illuminated lightning
that struck the night we met.


you taught me why hurricanes
are named after people, why
sunsets are better seen hand
in hand, upside-down. i didn’t
like my name until you whispered


it into my ear as we clung, crying
in the downpour as the universe
bearing down on our shoulders
finally collapsed. i told you i never
liked fireworks when i’m alone,


but now i hear them with every
beat of your feet walking away
from me. i can still feel your
hands tracing the length of my
curls, lavender perfume clinging


to your wrist. does it still make
sense to miss you? you never
seem to let me go, like the ghost
of us haunts your halls at night
with dead eyes, queer amongst


who we thought we’d be. i still
blow dandelions, lie in the street
at 2 am during hurricanes, so when
i said i wanted to marry you, you
have to know i meant it. would


we’ve been able to fly cape cod
hydrangeas in vibrant pinks, dull
purples, and hues of blues? if only
we could’ve told each other what
we implied when we said i love you.


i know they said little
girls didn’t grow up
to marry other little
girls, but maybe
we could have.
















































22. spanish lessons[BR][PB] GL


rather than saying supporters 
it’s people who support the cause 


circumlocution 


the best friend of the foreigner 
ever learning a new language 






























































23. GALATEA 
[BR] GL [PC]


I


I tried to swim
in the falling snow,
as if to overcome
the gap between
what is and what isn’t.


II


There is nowhere left to run —
you knocked on the bedroom door
and told me to go back to sleep.


III


In Greece, you had a purple towel
tied nonchalantly around your waist
and salt flowing down your chin  
reflecting the old masters lighting.


IV


I’m sorry that I ignored the ropes,
but they’re inappropriately formal;
they prevent possession.


The museum will be closing in fifteen minutes


V


I knew that I shouldn’t have
embraced the sun
but, I did it for love,
in the name of love.


VI


Your words
dance provocatively
through the radio static —
my foot a metronome
transmitting,
searching for meters where
there are none.


VII


I chased your marble for its form;
it is old and academic,
but beauty without desire
can be bought and sold at auction.


The museum will be closing in fifteen minutes


VIII


The dead season,
the muddy season,
always arriving.
















































24. A Game of Cat and Mouse
LF [PC] [DU]
“You’re reading Freud?” Steven leaned back in his chair to peer over Phillip’s shoulder. “Why the hell would you listen to anything that weirdo has to say?”
“I didn’t pick it,” Phillip said, drawing in on himself and further into the book. “It’s for
philosophy.”
“Then protest.” Steven waved his arms about dramatically. “Walk into class and set the
book on fire. Demand to read less misogynistic crap.”
Phillip sighed, setting the book down for just a moment, which frankly, was the greatest
mistake of his life because in that moment, his eyes met Steven’s directly, and the intensity
behind that burning gaze would hold onto him and never let him go. “I’m not you. I can’t do that.”
“So you’ve heard of me?” Steven kicked his legs up onto the table, the soles of his feet
digging into Phillip’s required reading.
“Everyone has.”
“I’m flattered. Nice to know people are thinking of me.” He hummed, pulling a cigarette
out of his pocket that must have been damp because it took a few attempts to even light it.
“It’s not good things.”
“It never is, but thanks for the honesty. I appreciate it, doll.”
Phillip blushed as he nudged Steven’s feet off of his book, brushing the dirt off carefully
so that he could continue reading.
“Oh come on. What do these old racist guys even have to say that’s so interesting, hm?”
“Who do you recommend then?” Phillip meant it sarcastically, but by the grin that
captivated Steven’s face as he leaned over the desk, he knew that it had been a mistake.
“I thought you’d never ask.”
The conversation, if one could call it that, lasted for five hours. It only ended because the
library was closing, and while Steven dared the librarian to just lock the two of them in there, Phillip quickly scooped up his books and darted for the exit, muttering apologies to the librarian who could no longer even hear him.
“And,” Steven followed alongside him, “if it’s psychology you’re interested in, it’s not
Freud you should be reading. You know, the man’s a lunatic. Behaviorism or humanism are a
little more practical. I mean, humanism is kind of fluffy and overly optimistic, but it’s grounded in observation at least. Now Freud––he’s just a skuzz, really. I mean, where do you think he even
got his ideas from?”
“His patients?” Phillip weakly offered as he walked through the library doors, trying
desperately to lose the man at his heels.
“His patients were mostly upper class women. You think he got the idea of little boys
wanting to shag their mothers from those ladies?”
“Well, where did he get it from then?” Phillip sighed, stopping in his tracks to face
Steven.
“Where do you think? He made it up; he was a pervert who had the hots for his mother,
so he decided that everyone else must too. You know, there’s no evidence for anything that he
suggests, really. Now Skinner on the other hand, tested everything, so if you’re interested in
psychology-”
“I’m not,” Phillip desperately cut him off. “I’m only reading it for class, and we’re reading it in philosophy, so I really don’t need-”
“You’re telling me you’re not at all interested in the way the brain works?”
“I mean…”
“Okay, okay. Maybe if I explain some more you’ll get it.”
And so it went on. Unfortunately for Phillip, Steven followed him all the way back to his
room and made him stand there for several more hours while he rambled on about Skinnerian
boxes and pigeons and the strangest tangents. Passerbys constantly brushed past them, asking
politely for them to be quieter, and for which they only received the most vulgar profanities and a miraculous raising in volume until by the end of the night, Steven was practically screaming to
the whole campus.
Phillip had never wanted more to just disappear.
It was with one hell of a grudge, but Phillip had to admit it, to finally fold his cards and
leave the table; he had done the very thing he had sworn not to do when he went off for
University. He had fallen for one of the morons of the campus––those sort of rare delights that
are the charms of the scene, bringing vibrancy and draining IQ to everyone within a five mile
radius, but that was not to say that he was unintelligent; he was actually much to the contrary,
but his energy and relentlessness were enough to make anyone with the misfortune of making
contact with him feel their mental energy drained out with every second of conversation.
Steven Roberts was inexplicably outrageous; he never kept his mouth shut almost as if
he were afraid it would never be able to open again if it rested for even a moment. He fought
with anyone who dared to make eye contact with him, and he was, unfortunately, usually
intoxicated. He was the sort of man who would either make or completely ruin your day
depending on his mood; the whole campus swung with him every time his mood swung from
one end of the spectrum to another.
Most often, people spoke of him in a condescending manner, noting him as the
outrageous brat whose only interest in life was to personally ensure that every single student
required a shrink by the time they graduated.
Phillip Callings, however, was nothing of the sort; he was timid, small, and reserved,
wishing desperately that he could just fall into the wallpaper and take notes from there, never
having to speak to another person. Of course, with his luck, he would fall for the worst possible
person. He had a habit of getting himself into trouble like that, not to mention that the school
was no sanctuary to the grueling force that was homophobia of the 1960’s sort––a special sort
of delicacy in Britain complete with conversion therapy and lynchings to your liking. He had gotten himself into more trouble than he ever could have imagined; if only he had never had the
misfortune of sitting down next to Steven at the library in that legendary fall of 1962.
After only a few coerced weeks of knowing him, Phillip Callings had come to know
several things about Steven Roberts. His apparel was one of the only constant things about
him, and it nearly always consisted of khakis cuffed at the bottom to rise approximately one and
three quarter inches above his ankle, an exhausted button down shirt with a minimum of two
stains (one was permitted so long as it exceeded two inches in diameter), unremarkable brown
dress shoes, one ankle sock and one full length sock scrunched up to imitate said ankle sock, a
silver watch that had not worked for at least ten years, and a stupidly lopsided smile that was
powered solely on whiskey and rum.
He was, unfortunately, an attractive man. Despite his poor but deliberate fashion
choices, his beauty still managed to shine through all of it. If only he had worn jeans rather than
khakis, perhaps they could have avoided this whole ‘forbidden love’ drama. Steven had dark-
but-not-quite-black hair incessantly untamed by product or the laws of physics, bright blue eyes,
deeply tanned skin of the sort that made him a beacon for racists to find amongst the lukewarm
pale sea of the British population, a sharply tuned nose, stupidly toned arms (most likely from
picking fights with anyone who breathed in his direction) an uneven gait courtesy of his
aforementioned best friends whiskey and rum, and a ferocity behind everything he did or said
clear from the mischief in his eyes.
His family consisted of one of London’s finest men who could have anything he desired
except for, apparently, his son’s recognition, a housecleaner from Guatemala who had died
when Steven was 16 and was the only person that Steven never spoke ill of, seven unnaturally
tiny dogs, one spoiled semi-cat that had become engulfed in fat and fur beyond recognition, 17
horses, a turtle, and 36 staff members employed at the main household. He said that the only
one that counted as family was the turtle. 
Phillip learned fairly quickly that Steven denied his British heritage and only claimed himself as Guatemalan; he would be offended if you even insinuated that he might be less than fully Guatemalan.
Right now, he was sitting on Phillip’s chair with his feet up on his desk, knocking over the meticulously placed items that had neatly lined his desk. With one fell swoop of his feet, Steven had managed to knock over the pencil jar that contained exactly one dozen fully sharpened pencils and ten pens split evenly between black and red––blue was too close to black and quite pretentious, Phillip would say when asked—one carefully placed photograph of Phillip and his parents, one alarm clock, and a small bottle of hand lotion. 
The window was still open from where Steven had mysteriously forced his way in despite the fact that Phillip lived on the third floor of the apartment complex.
“Please be quieter,” Phillip whispered after Steven had boldly declared his presence
upon sitting himself down upon the chair, completely uninvited.
“Why? Your roommate is fast asleep. I’m pretty sure this place could be swept up in a
hurricane and he’d just keep on snoring.”
It was true. Phillip’s roommate––a man named Leonard Burns––was sprawled out onto
the bed on the other side of the room with his face buried into his pillow, which did little to muffle his armageddon snores that made the whole bed tremble with anticipation.
“It’s still rude.”
“Do I look like I care if I’m rude?” Steven motioned to his feet upon the desk as he
leaned back in the chair.
“I thought you just… didn’t understand social boundaries.”
“Cute, but no. I understand them and hate them. Stupid self-imposed rules. Since when
did we decide that there were forbidden behaviors?”
“You sound like Freud.”
“Oh. You’re talking back now? Interesting. I wasn’t sure that you were able.”
“Would you just… Please be quieter if you’re going to stay?”
“I really don’t see why. I mean,” something devilish comes over Steven’s features that
makes Phillip almost want to throw him right back out of that window before he can even say
whatever wicked thing is on his mind. “I could probably shag you right here, and he would just
keep on dozing.”
It is easy for one to say that one is familiar with Embarrassment––that yes, she is an old
friend, a constant companion almost, but there was not a single person who had ever felt the
sudden rush of her full, suffocating embrace as much as Phillip had at that moment. Indeed,
with only those few words, he had come to know her in a way that he had never thought
possible: a way that twisted the lines on her face to make her almost resemble her cousin, that
riddle outcast of Shame, or worse, Guilt.
“You need to leave.” Phillip had never heard such certainty in his voice before, and it
almost frightened him. He stormed across the limited space of the apartment bedroom to nudge
Steven towards the window.
Steven, however, was remarkably stable for someone who had already had two flasks of
whiskey throughout the duration of the day, and he remained seated in the chair, looking
curiously up at the flustered man trying desperately to kick him out of his apartment.
“I don’t need to do anything. Now you’re being rude.”
“I don’t care,” Phillip bit out.
“I thought you loved rules… that you kissed up to your social overlords whenever you got the chance?”
A silence hung between them in which Steven merely watched him for an answer, his
eyes tracking over the expressions that flickered off of Phillip’s face like scenes on a theater
screen.
Phillip Callings is not a homosexual.


“I am not a homosexual.” Phillip closed his eyes, allowing the words to wash over him in
hopes that it would dispel the lurking sickness within him that he had buried so carefully so long
ago.
Steven whistled as he settled himself comfortably into the chair again. “Your sweater
vests beg to differ.”
“My…” Phillip’s face fell in his hands before the thought occurred to him. “Are you…?”
“Queer?” Steven leaned towards him, and when he received a slow nod from Phillip, he
chuckled but continued. “I literally just offered to shag you ten seconds ago. That should be
enough of a clue.”
“You need to leave.” Phillip started pushing him towards the window again, and by the
grace of God, Steven indulged him and stood up to go towards the window of his own accord.
“All right. I didn’t mean to upset you, doll.” Steven sounded softer, farther away.
“Just…” Phillip whispered in defeat. “Go, please.”
“Yeah.” Steven hopped onto the window sill, leaning over to brush a finger against
Phillip’s cheek. He let it hover there for a moment, the space between them so thin that it
seemed already broken.
But it wasn’t. Steven left back through the window, leaving Phillip standing in a daze
while the object of his budding affection darted off much like a thief of the night; except, he had
not taken much of anything other than perhaps Phillip’s sense of security, but he had left so
much more: standing there with his hand tracing where Steven’s finger had been, he imagined
that he could feel Love’s delicate handwriting written there. He could almost fall into it.
From then on, life for Phillip Callings revolved around Steven; he was his sun, his moon,
his stars––anything and everything worth looking at. Studying, of course, was still important, but
Steven somehow always managed to pull him away from his books when he had worked for too
long. They spent a lot of time in odd synchronous rhythms. When Phillip studied in the library,
Steven would sit next to him and ramble about a book or shout at the librarians. Steven would
go to Phillip’s classes and start arguments with the teachers; there were a few cases in which
he jumped onto the professor’s desk, and one in which he fell off and hit his head due to a few
too many encounters with his constant companion flask. They spent late nights in coffee shops
where Phillip would scribble down his essays and Steven would pour whiskey into his coffee
and read over Phillip’s shoulder sometimes critically, sometimes in awe of the words that
seemed to be an extension of his lover’s mind, body, and soul. They would wander around
campus, but only in the darkest corners where they were sure no one could see would they dare
to break the space that the campus enforced between them; only in those fleeting moments
were they really free.
“Come on.” Steven led Phillip by the hand down the ravine. “It’s finally not freezing out.”
Phillip followed silently. He loved being led. Anywhere that was good enough to get
Steven rushing towards it made Phillip more than willing to fall head first into it, and that
included when Steven finally stopped at the small pond about a mile off of campus and
immediately began to strip down.
“What?” He looked up when he noticed Phillip simply staring. “You nervous the birds are
going to judge you?”
“No, I… It’s just so close to campus. What if someone sees?”
“Then they see.” Steven shrugged. “We’re just swimming. Are they going to lynch me for
that?”
“It… I don’t know.”
“You never do.”
Steven shook his head with an affectionate smirk as he leaned in, scooping a gentle
hand behind the curvature of Phillip’s neck to pull him in.
“Last one in is paying for dinner!” Steven called as he immediately turned around upon
breaking the kiss, rushing albeit unevenly towards the pond.
“W-wait! I didn’t agree to that! Steven!”
Water. The water was freeing, liberating, like a mask that prevented the world from
seeing in. It was almost like a glass fogged up by the breath of a desperate child so that no one
could see through, and then it was just them and an infinite space, impenetrable by prejudice or
time.  
And when it was over because of the curtain of night that set a blanket and lulled their
outing to sleep, they lay on the side of the pond, staring up at the blossoming freckles of stars in
the canvas of the sky. Slowly, their hands linked together, fingers intertwining like galaxies,
separate in their own right but hopelessly intermingled in the span of eternity, lost in the web of
time, and for a moment, it engulfed them. Time was nothing, and they were just bodies in space.
“I want to do something fun tonight,” Steven announced.
“We just did.”
“Come on.” Steven had already pushed himself up, pulling his shirt back on with a speed
usually foreign to people who had had that much to drink.
“Where are we going?” Phillip asked the question, but even as he dressed himself and
followed Steven along back through the woods and all the way back to campus, he did not care
for the answer. He had learned long ago that the answer was not what mattered. Everything
was in the invitation.
They wound up in the biggest lecture hall on campus. Steven picked the locks to the
doors pretty easily, and Phillip merely watched, passively. There was a time when he would
have freaked out, but Steven’s calmness radiated in waves, and it was overpowering.
Phillip followed almost detached as Steven wrote profanities on the board and scattered
papers across the desks. He could only feel pure awe in that moment. Steven was
everything––a chaotic swirl of energetic love that engulfed everything in its path, and he was
more than happy to be its final object.
“Come here,” Steven’s voice came breathily as he pulled Phillip into him by the collar,
the kiss lingering there in the suspension of time that they had created together.
“What if someone is in the building?” Phillip breathed between kisses despite making no
effort to stop anything that was happening.
“It doesn’t matter.”
And it didn’t.
“I love you,” Steven breathed.
The world was so much clearer than it ever had been. There was so much focus there in
that one moment that Phillip almost forgot everything that had ever come before.
None of it mattered.
“I love you too.”
“I’d like to marry you someday.”
Phillip Callings is not a homosexual.
“You can’t.” Phillip chuckled, brushing his fingers along the sides of Steven’s face.
“That’s what’s wrong with you, Phil. You look at things all wrong. So the system hates
us, so then we hate it too, but we’ve got to change it. You get kicked and you stay down. That’s
your whole problem. You’ve got to learn to get back up and change what you don’t like.”
Phillip said nothing, merely listening with eager fascination of Steven’s certainty.
“Now, let’s make out on this skuzz’s desk.”


Phillip found himself waiting outside of the building because Steven had decided to take
the ‘scenic’ way out––that is, to say, he decided that he was going to scale his way down the
building. Phillip had fussed over him in worrying that he would get hurt, but Steven assured him
he would be fine. After all, he was more than used to scaling Phillip’s apartment due to the fact
that Leonard Burns could literally sleep through the apocalypse.
Steven emerged in the window, standing triumphantly with his hands on his hips and
promptly swung his body down the side. He was down the building in only a matter of seconds
without any trouble, landing swiftly on his feet.
“That was amazing!” Phillip rushed over to greet him. He pulled Steven into him for a
celebratory kiss, willing to celebrate anything and everything that Steven was.
“Of course.” Steven muttered around the kiss, slightly amused at Phillip’s awe.
“Hey!”
The two of them broke off at the sound of an approaching voice, spinning around to see
a group of young men about their age heading towards them––about half a dozen or so.
“Hey, faggots!”
Blood. Phillip could hear his own blood pulsing through his veins, aware of how much he
had and how much could spill at any second.
“What did you just say?” Steven bristled, pushing himself in front of Phillip so that he
could face the group of men.
“I said,” the lead boy snickered and his friends laughed along with him. “You’re a couple
of f-”
Phillip had never seen a punch so fast in his life, and Steven was quick to dodge the
following throws that ensued. It was at this moment that he remembered that Steven was
notorious for starting fights.
Phillip could only watch, frozen in place, which years down the road he would be told
was perfectly normal, but in that moment, he felt completely and utterly helpless.
Two of the men had grabbed him and they were kicking him, but his eyes were trained
on Steven, who fought with more energy than Phillip could even have ever hoped to obtain. He
wanted to fight for Steven, and he wished that he had. Maybe things would have been different.
Maybe they would not have ended that way.
Phillip Callings is not a homosexual. Phillip Callings is not a homosexual. Phillip Callings is not a homosexual…
His classmate’s handwriting is rubbing off from the sweat on his fist. His teacher was so
pleased with herself for making the bully have such a sore hand by the time he had finished
writing the phrase five dozen times, and she had given Phillip the paper as proof that his
classmate’s comment was gone. Proof that the words and everything the meant was gone, and
he clung to that paper, hoping he could breathe the words in and let them take over his lungs.
Phillip watched in crushing horror as his own vision clouded with blood as the men
ripped off Phillip’s shoelaces, Steven flailing and screaming at them the whole way despite the
bruises and broken bones already poking through his less than well fitting shirt. They dragged
him to the nearest tree, one where Steven often perched to throw papers at passersby, and
they strung him up as if he were just another decoration to them, nothing at all.
In the years to come, Phillip would not remember anything other than the kiss, his
scream, and Steven’s body finally drained of its life, hanging from the tree, the breath finally
knocked out of him. He would remember the way that his mouth hung open without any words
coming out, and that to him was the most unnatural, the thing that tore his world from under him,
and all he could do was scream.
Steven Roberts died in the spring of 1964. Phillip Callings died with him, never to stray
from behind the lines, never to be anything more. His parents forced conversion therapy on him
afterwards. Everyday was a new pill, a new method, but none of it mattered. 
Phillip married in summer 1970. His parents picked the girl, and she was nice and quiet. She did not ask any questions. None of it mattered.
She left him in winter 1976. He did not say anything when she made the announcement
or when she moved all of her things. None of it mattered.
Gay marriage was legalized in 2013 when Phillip was 70 years old. For the first time
since the spring of 1964, he cried. He left the house that day, venturing to the outskirts of
London, and he settled upon the grave of his one and only. He closed his eyes and allowed the
comfort of the coldness of the grave to lull him into sleep, brushing his fingers along the lines of
his name, and knowing now, that in the safety of the moment, he could finally be free, and he
finally knew that Love drew her name in the lines of Steven Roberts’s grave.


In summer 2013, Phillip Callings died finally knowing freedom after fifty years of never
leaving the lines. In summer 2013, Phillip Callings found peace.


























































25. Perching on a Grave  
GL   LF SL


Once flitting and frolicking, 


The bird now perches on the stone,


Cooing and babbling,


It won’t leave us alone.


Surely you know me―


The bird did proclaim,


They call me Seamus Heaney,


A name of wide acclaim. 


This grave, this stone,


Is where I once stood,


But now I’ve risen, 


And I soar through the Hazelwood.


The Earth pulls me forward and 


Eases my plight,


After so many decades, 


My soul still feels light.  


The years have long passed,


They’ve trickled out of sight,


But I must oblige 


And continue to write. 


My poems are everlasting, 


Beautiful, and bold,


The words on the page―


They’ll never grow old. 


A call to reality,


A message I must spread,


Fire for the living,


And sanctity for the dead. 


I simply belong here, in the 


Isle of Emerald Green,


With its peat bogs and bosky banks,


The most beautiful you’ve ever seen.


I’ve trekked through the Wicklow Mountains,


I’ve ambled along the Antrim Coast,


I’ve meandered through the streets of Dublin,


And this is what I truly miss the most. 


But I am here now,


Here with you,


Striving to express


That which is true.


Keep writing and thinking,


Put the thoughts on a page,


Don’t fear their reaction,


As value increases with age. 


And as for me,


I will do the same,


Walk on air 


And watch the words turn to flame. 


  





























26. SIREN [BR] GL LF


Had I kissed you on the beach,
the moment could’ve died 
receiving its proper burial. 


My ears stuffed with beeswax 
left a latent image you slipped 
into me like Atlantic foam, 
appearing, then disappearing, 
later recalled in the sound 
of a bathroom conch shell. 


I thought that to survive meant 
to hold out against desire,
as if the imagination could 
be more satisfied than touch.  


To believe this becomes harder,
the passing of time signifying 
distances impossible to traverse;
the mind thinking it can deceive 
desperate for solutions, remedies 
to quell a jellyfish. 












































27. how many season?
LF GL [PB]


fucking vivaldi 
violins banging shit out
got me vibin so hard 
i could go stupid 


did people of his time 
appreciate the bangers?
probably...
this ain’t some new wave shit
i’m just late to the game






























































28. tequila, on the rocks [JG] LF GL


one drink to feel the buzz
yet no art comes to mind
only an empty page 
under the wet footprint of a cocktail
soggy and blank
goldfish-
raisins-
dust in cheesed grape 


































































29. grandmother’s colors  SL  GL  LF
your voice is a remembered sound;
warm wool wrapping
around my bare neck in winter,
telling me
dreams are Orange and Yellow.


you used to love
the snow the sun 
dyed Yellow and Orange
with sunrise, used to love
jam on toast during mornings
too cold the birds forgot to sing.  


you told me the stars are music boxes 
that spill 
the sounds of crickets, and heaven 
listens to their Blue melody. 


Blue was your heart
after its arteries became clogged
and the doctors took it out
and replaced it with one 
that didn’t work anyways.


i walk to the window and imagine 
i see you dancing and alive,
out in the Orange field and imagine
winter now preserves you 
up in the stars, body Blue and cold,
with hands delicate and steady, 
as you set a plate of breakfast toast 
at a table for one. 












30. She Told Me She Wished to be Remembered as a Relic   
GL LF [PC]


My dead great-grandmother sits in the drawing room
as a hand-mirror. Three generations worn,
the edges dip in where familial hands have held 
their own reflections. Spotted with marks
time impressed upon the glass, it is hard
to make out a true reflection anymore. I move
the mirror close, far, left, right, to attempt 
a more perfect image of myself. Nothing appears.
The object sits heavy in my palm: on the other side,
swirling patterns of jade. She loved the color 
jade: God mixed blue and green to find it –
or so I am told. This mirror could be a lie
as much as it could be my great-grandmother:
either way you look at it, you’ll find a metaphor
and see the outlines of a face that looks like yours
but really belongs to a stranger. 








































31. F1[1] & H1B[2] [BR] GL LF


Give me your well-behaved, your comfortable, your meek;
your diligent students, programmers in seek 
of tutelage and work.
Give me your landed gentry, your excellent sheep.


Your full tuition appreciated. Your services: 
invisible but well-compensated. 
Be nice, stay on the margins, be quiet.
Me, have patience wiss dat accent? Impossible.


Here’s a pretty badge 
for as long as you stay unoffended, inaudible. 
Here are fifty reasons why
your women are vixens, men undesirable. 


Oppressed? Nonsense, with all that dough?
Your skin is light and ancestors unchained.
Never mind you can’t vote, your taxes will prove
you’re part of the family, don’t complain!


We’ll import the technical people,
then call your people awkward, antisocial. 
We’ll hand-pick the loaded kids,
then say you’re all crazy rich and material.


Federalist Papers and Shakespeare[3], let them study that.
This ship is sailing. Nail shut the cabin doors!
We’ll convert these spies, or better, expel and ban; no more 
job-stealing immigrants, green-card-digging whores.










32. There is Thin Water[a]
 
On that night, water descended slow 
and tentative from the heavens
in a generous mist.
 
It draped lampposts
with its swirling gauze,
hid the moon 
 
from above the wetland,
dampened the harrowed din
of cricket song
rising from the cattails.
 
Somewhere, there is a great abacus of 
clear glass beads in neat rows. 
        In a gentle tapping rhyme,
a winged angel counts
 
each drop of dewy joy as it leaps
from its folded leaf-tip
and lands
in the wet embrace of the earth.
 
Somewhere, in the great book,
the frog whistles his yearning into a dark night—
 
but elsewhere, maybe on the first page,
there is the thin water
      which glistens on his slippery back
                from far above.
















33. The Old Men of Reykjavík
LF GL [PC]


They play in the church 
crowning the city: where the Vikings arrived 
in wooden boats. The old men of Reykjavík
untuck their violins, 
cellos, basses, from their resting cases;
they tune them 
under the darkness of the Northern winter. I cannot play,
yet I watch them (I have watched them
for years); my grandfather
sits left, second from the end, 
butterfly hands fluttering around 
the violin that might as well be a live thing – 
separate, autonomous from him – 
the way it dances, as if trying to escape
his arthritic grasp. Can 
the Vikings below-ground
sense the sound 
after two thousand years?


















































34. Drawing Circles
[SG]
 
Tuesday mornings are full of innocent freedom
A new day to get to the bottom
of this: God why am I so empty?
They say to use your words but my mouth
nose, eyes, are pressed up to the glass
And I might not muster up the courage to speak this week.
 
Even if it will only happen twice this week,
on Wednesday I pull myself from bed and empty
my pill bottle. I reach for the glass
of water forever on my dresser, place it to my mouth
forever awaiting the taste of freedom.
I look into the bottle and see a trip to the pharmacy at the bottom.
 
Thursday day I’m thinking this week
is okay, because my body has found freedom
from days-old cocaine and cigarettes and the empty
promises that they make. Maybe tonight my mouth
will kiss and sing, rather than suckle a glass
of which I never want to see the bottom.
 
Thursday night I fail again and from the bottom
of the well I look up at the empty
sky, wondering why birds deserve freedom
from their own minds while mine cuts like glass,
spending each and every week
hating the words that come out of my mouth.
 
I think back to Monday morning and purging myself empty
A last-ditch effort at freedom
From glass after glass after glass
Letting the liquor escape from my mouth
Letting myself try for one more week.
Maybe this time I won’t come out on the bottom.
 
Friday comes to begin my week and my mouth waters for a lick
of freedom at the bottom of a glass half-empty. I smash it into my chest
and allow each shard to nestle an inch deeper into my heart.












35. Sunset Hunters
GL [BR] LF


It’s a school night and you’re burning
as we drive too fast down an empty
two-lane road with deep crimson
and liquid yellow sliding through the windshield
to prick at your eyes and bloody your skin.
Sunset hunting you call it, 
every extra minute in the light
a moment stolen from God.
You point at the sinking sun like it’s an Easter egg
peeking out of the tall grass waiting 
to be plucked by a child’s searching fingers,
and you tell me to chase it.
It’s a losing game, and we’re running on empty
but you’re humming that little tune
you heard somewhere that you’ve long since 
forgotten the name of, a-hunting we will go!—
and it’s like a battle cry or maybe
a funeral dirge, and I wonder how you can be 
so wise when your tangled brown hair
doesn’t even reach the headrest of my car yet.








































36. Inclement Weather 
GL [BR] LF


You may have seen me 
running back to the dorms
in the sudden downpour 
with nothing but a flimsy pink umbrella
with half of its metal spokes
snapped and dangling uselessly 
around my head as I tried to salvage 
what little of my clothes remained dry. 
You may even have seen
how I stole that umbrella from where it
slumped in a dusty cubby in the corner
of the cafeteria then proceeded to trudge
resolutely up the asphalt slope,
now a gushing river, up the stairs,
now a foaming waterfall,
with wet feet, wet socks, wet soles—
and I couldn’t stop laughing at the absurdity of it all.
Whenever someone walked past
hunched over, hands shoved into pockets
rain dripping from their hoods,
I hid my delirious smile
because what would people think
if we went around smiling all the time?


A thousand miles away, I know you’re sitting
at home, comfortably dry 
laughing at me swimming out here
with my textbooks growing soggy
on my back, and it’s hysterical, it’s absurd—
it’s nearly freezing but all I can hear
is your laughter above the drumming downpour
telling me that there is only this moment,
here and now, with socks that squelch
with every step, a broken pink umbrella 
my only godsend, and the rain laughing
and laughing, and oh what a time
to be alive.
________________
37. Building a Radio For Dad 
[SG]


I am building a radio with Dad
Out of a tuna fish can.


Soldering iron pats clips of tubing
Spools snipped short and melted air-tight.


Transformers, Resistors, Inductors
And Toroidal Cores-- I can taste 
The sodder steam brining the air.


We banter like waves bouncing--
Reverberating-- 
Balancing on a laser one-atom-wide.


And to me, 
His wisdom is as comforting as the steam brimming 
From that coil of metal.


It adheres to me.


Behind my eyes.


As soft as wax that coats our kitchen floors.


And suddenly,
I cannot hear you over the static.
An interruption, an interference,
A loose signal or even a shout.


Three Dots
Three Dashes.
Three Dots.


Bounce back?


Tick… 
Tick…
Tick… Across the line of a telegraph wire?


Will you remember to lift my finger?
Clasp mine between your own,
Release my print and lift 
the stamp from my heart?


Or will you tell me:
This is only a Receiver.
Not a Transmitter.


Catatonic silence rots wires.


Grip this cold battery in a quaking fist
Refrigerator mist folding across cheeks
Whenever you reach into a vegetable drawer
For a button cell battery.


Ions and lightning will always
Cry loud and clean. 


Listen.
________________
38. Harvest Moon
[SG]


My heart is full
        Of worms.
A basket overflowing
        With corn
At the peak of season.


I gave three ears 
        To family.
A bushel
        To future worries.
And the rest to rot
        At the feet of a silent straw man.


Two kernels remain
        Rolling wetly around a wicker rim.
To rest in a puddle
Of muddy autumn tears.


So I give one to you
And keep the other for me,
Balanced between
The soft pads of our fingertips.


And when you squeeze
Sweet water pools from a split,
In butter yellow skin
You dab wet my bloodless lips.


And that golden pearl drops
        Plump and pristine,
Rolling from the fist 
of my open hand--
To fall into mulch
And be swarmed by ants.
________________
39. Ballerina on a Street Corner
[SG]


Her arm hangs out
Limp at the wrist,
Swaying and bobbing 
Catching on concrete cracks 
And the bitter air makes her thumb tingle.


He mom hangs out
Wrist tight at the hip,
Limbs balanced and stacked
Her fist gripping a stroller
The wheals caught between sidewalk panels.


Chains rattle and click
As the fence is gripped,
And a crucifix
Is balanced
Between two fingertips.


And yet,
Her arm hangs out
Limp at the wrist,
And mom stands so 
straight she’s crooked.
Standing on a street
Where hands grip chains,
And hands grip strollers.


A baby’s hand down 
Open and asking,
For a crack 
of concrete sailing--


--or an iron rattle
From a fence,
Or christ,
Or her weak arm
To be pulled back
To rest in her stroller. 
________________
[1] The F-1 Visa is required for foreign nationals to enter the United States as a full-time student.
[2]  The H1-B Visa is required of foreign workers working temporarily in the U.S. in specialty occupations. A specialty occupation requires the application of specialized knowledge and a bachelor's degree or the equivalent of work experience, usually in STEM or business fields. 
[3] See Senator Tom Cotton’s remark.
[a]Titled "October" in the Zacket, but I cannot find it in the submissions folder.﻿In my dreams


In my dreams I can fly 
Around the globe and everyone will say hi


In my dreams there is no pain 
And that poor old man will never miss his train 


In my dreams we all have enough to eat
And all the worlds kids have shoes on their feet 


In my dreams I’m an action star
Riding around in a fancy sports car


In my dreams I’ve found love 
And at my wedding there were 1000 white doves


In my dreams there is no Gardenscapes™
So I don’t get stuck with one of those misleading ads when I’m just trying to break my arcade mode record in fruit ninja after redownloading it for a road trip


You know those ones where they make you fake play the game but if you tap where it tells you it’ll take you to the App Store and at the end of like 30 seconds or something the little x pops up but your finger is too big and you click the ad anyways and get sent to the App Store and then once you get back and actually click the x you get to play like max one more round and get hit with ANOTHER fucking ad?  Like come on we all know those puzzles aren’t what the game is actually like! But did I download it anyway?? YES! And did I enjoy it for about 5 months until it got too hard and I rage deleted it?? Obviously!! And then I feel shame every time I see the ad because I know it played its dirty little tricks in me and fucking won and it makes me wanna throw my phone out the window and———


In my dreams we found world peace 
And I can go where mama Mia was filmed in Greece 


In my dreams I made my true home
One where I am never alone


And in my dreams I won’t wake up 
And have to deal with these fucking garden scapes ads again
________________


Constantine's Basilica


The shell remains,
Though cleaved and crumbled.
It cannot contain


The populace anymore than
The Colosseum,
Whose white walls rot to dirty tan;


The plaque builds
Up on unused bones and yellows marble
Swords and shields.


But this shell still stands as a red husk
Of brittle brick,
The remnants of some gargantuan mollusk.


Empty sockets
Are the arches who saw an empire
That rotted,


And the inside is pitted with cavities
Inverted from
The geometric armor of tortoises. 


Fractured are
The bones exposed to elements and treated
With little care-


Was this shell molted, forgotten by man?
Or was the beast it housed
Killed far away on an eastern plain?


Repurposed for
The monuments of new gods and new kings,
The bones were


Strewn about after the giant’s death;
Now these remnants of
The autochthonous beast return to the earth.
________________
Grandma’s House
The faint smell of cologne makes its way up and across my grandma’s terrace. Through the sliding doors, the steady pounding of the bass echoes through the courtyard. Pulsing below, the dim orange glow of a cigarette. The young man, who had been pacing in the cramped terrace below, takes a drag as he sits on a crate. His friend joins him. Countless voices from the kitchen and the clink of silverware, a busy Saturday evening.                        
It is late and the sky is turning into wine, only covered by flat grey clouds, a mix of smog and rain soon to come. The neighbors across from my grandma’s curl up on the sofa. A bowl of watermelon and a slow hug as the kids fall asleep. Their father collapsed on the sofa, a glass of wine beside him. Again, the cologne rises and falls. The man is pacing again, speaking excitedly on the phone, cigarette in hand. His friend is gone, back into the crowded kitchen. Everyone is nestled in their boxes, unevenly spread into a trapezoid of sorts.                                
A late summer dinner glows from one of the terraces. Covered by a cloth tent, a soft conversation of how the kids are doing. In the distance, tires screech, a car honks. Two girls climb out into the alleyway terrace behind the kitchen, cigarettes in hand. As they open the sliding doors, I catch a fragment of a complaint, beer in hand to distract themselves from their low paying week. A curl of smoke makes its way up to me and for an instant, I am in the alleyway, glass in hand, pounding in my ears, and a faint smile on my face as the dark summer air sneaks its way through the doors and into that packed kitchen.
________________
Lost to Crater Lake


the drowning boy’s                                fingers reach
for the moonlight                                    shimmering 
on the water’s                                        quiet surface 
soft waves blend                                      dark ripples
and light together                             neither of which
were the boy                                           able to cling
though he tried                                  he tries no more
so will fades out                             like melting snow
and concession                                  numbly follows
the wilted boy                                     sinking deeper
watches the moon                         lose its white glow              
still he stays                                       as he succumbs
to the warm offer                             of a gentle death                           
at the very bottom                           of the crater lake
preserved here               a boy                    in eternity
 his shining eyes ever to reflect the faint moonlight
________________
saint sylvia 


i liked that she was so angry. 
i never knew someone so thin could be so angry.
id’ve thought there wasn’t enough space for rage, 
enough space for anything but an aching, swollen brain and cigarette legs.
of course i’d known about what she had done
probably since i started liking poems and feeling stale
but still, i didn’t read the bell jar until i was seventeen
and by then it was too late anyways, i was seventeen years old and 
fifty years too late to a book launch planned at a funeral,
to a story already studied in black and white by millions of me’s,
that sort of “black hair type” that so many grandmothers and headmistresses loathe,
to the story that goes: 


sylvie, i have had to kill you
you died before i had time-


ash, rise, red, hair,
brute, boot, mistress,
december, fire, genius, mad 


i felt she was my patron saint,
a holy mourner lying in wait until i’d come of natural dying age, 
siren call to the northeast where she’d been long before me


and now i have pictures of her on my wall, 
and i listen to her read her poems through headphones, 
and i swear i won’t ever read ted hughes, 
and i think sylvia would be a good name for a daughter, 
but mostly i wonder if she would have hated me, 
or if i would have hated her 
or if we would have been friends.
________________
FAGGOT
why
as i lie here
do i think 
gay things
like
holding his hand
or
switching sunglasses
in the sun of summer


his glasses never fit right
his hands felt too rigid


i smile when 
cash comes on
sings ring of fire
and i remember 
when i fell in
and the time 
we laid together


i wonder
if well ever speak again
or if 
no one will know
meant
youre a fag
get over it


if being queer
is a small light
in a walkin closet
ive closed the door
and locked it 
from the outside
and put up a chair
under the knob
and i hold a flashlight
hands trembling
in the basement
as i fumble slowly
with the breaker box
wishing i spent more time 
listening to my father
as he told me 
be a man
and now im only 
a shitty electrician
rendering 
a bulb useless
________________


my grandfather’s parlor


there’s a porcelain bulldog 
in the corner of the living room
constantly wagging his tail–
you call him winston


then there’s the churchill biographies
arrayed on the shelves by the stereo–
each volume another testament to 
your interior civic religion


you like to leave the chess set out 
and there’s the king I lost to you –
its cedar crown wedged between 
your mug of ovaltine and 
box of ginger snaps


it’s a cozy winter afternoon so the 
fireplace and tea kettle whistle away
while my grandmother alternates 
between her three puzzles –
the crossword, jigsaw, and
what’s wrong with kids these days


and then there’s you grandfather
with your ascot tie that twirls
like a mobius strip in freefall 
and your laughter that drowns out 
the scott joplin on the stereo


you’re in your armchair
telling me about the 
battle of britain, jane austen 
and your friend who knows seamus heaney 
and your other friend who doesn’t but is still lovely
and, in fact, has just arrived for afternoon tea
________________


Beauty is in the Eye of the Beholder


We count our dollars on the train to the party, sucking on blow-pops, and playing with the gold chains that swing on our necks and the gold hoops that hang on our ears. We are the youth, the urban kids people like to pity. Because we have shit against us, but it’s edgy to be outcasts. So I guess we’re cool with it, I mean it’s all we know and I don’t think we’d want it any other way.
“How much do we need to get in again?” Shae asks before licking her thumb and swiping through a small stash of single dollars.
Dondé holds up the number five before going back to gulping down the Hennessy in the brown paper bag.
“Aight, that works. I got five for the party and ten for food. Where we tryna eat?” Shae asks before she snatches the alcohol from Dondé.
“Shit, you almost fucking spilled it, Shae! I don’t give a fuck where we eat, let’s just get to the damn party first,” Dondé says re-tying his Jordans for the 10th time. 
We’ve all been pretty close since elementary school, gone from one stage of life to another, hand-in-hand. Witnessed shit little kids shouldn’t watch happen in front of them. Dondé watched his father get shot in front of his own eyes by a few thugs from a rival gang. Rappers don’t know “gang shit” until they’ve witnessed shit like that. 
Shae’s been in foster care since she was six, it’s the only life she remembers and the only life she wants to remember, except she has a very fuzzy image of her mother that she tries to erase from her memory. Seeing the face of the woman who gave you up because she didn’t deem you worthy of her love is an image that I wouldn’t curse upon my worst enemy. 
RJ has it a little better than the rest of us, he’s got two loving parents that make good money. That’s why we always hang out at his house, he lives comfortably. Or at least his physical being lives comfortably, his soul and mental state live in war. Pastor’s son...pastor’s gay son. It’s the little shit, the behind-closed-doors shit that can fucking cause the most pain.
Then there’s Greg, full name Gregory. We joke around that his mother didn’t love him with a name like Gregory. He fucking agrees, that’s why he goes by his last name: Mercado. He’s raised by his grandmother cause both of his parents are in jail; dad’s there’s for life, mom’s there for three more months. Then she’s out. And Mercado can’t stop talking about it, I don’t blame him, I’d be happy too. Shit, I miss my mom too.
We clean up pretty nicely, at least during the weekdays. Only then do we dress to impress the white men who run our society. Only then do we conform to society’s standards of power and success. Only then do we peel off our skin and tuck it in our bookbags. 
“Grand Army Plaza is the next stop,” the intercom says throughout the train car.
Before the door closes two police officers enter the train rocking a golden badge on their chest, a taser on their left hip, and a gun on their right. They look down the car and their beady blue eyes land on us. Staring us up and down, inspecting how deep our blackness runs. 
It runs pretty deep.
Shae picks on her Bob Marley twists as she hides the alcohol behind her back.
I stare at the officers, at the way they wear their guns like the way Dondé wears his gold chains. The way their navy blue hats sit tight on their head and block their eyes from the yellow luminescent lights on the ceiling of the train.
RJ twists on the state championship ring on his right hand and his hazel eyes glimpse at me before looking at the officers whose eyes haven’t dropped from the group of black kids making a nuisance on the train.
We are those Black kids. Even though not all of us are Black. But that’s the way they see us. Not as the few kids who are simply excited for a party they’ve been planning to attend this entire month. Or the kids who can’t wait to graduate high school, together...as one...as a family. Because that’s what we are: a family. 
The cleanliness of the Grand Army Plaza train station makes Dondé’s dark skin glisten and his black eyes turn a dark-brown. He licks his lips and makes sure to keep his hands in front of him, where everyone can see them. Where his enemies can see them. The enemy of my enemy is my friend, I guess that’s why we’re all friends.
Shae scoots over to me. “What do I do with the alcohol?” she whispers in my ears, still picking on her twists.
“I don’t know, but just chill,” I say as I rub the sweat on my palms on my black jeans.
“What’s our stop?” she questions, scanning the list of stops on the other side of the train.
“The next one. Yo, just chill. You’re making me nervous,” I say before sitting back and resting my head on the train walls.
Dondé gets up from his seat and faces the train doors. The cops step a little closer to us and right behind Dondé, almost breathing down his neck.
“Can I help you, sir?” Dondé says to the cop directly behind him. His chest rises up and down, quicker with each syllable and I watch his nose flare. It wasn’t anger. It was fear. Cause although we should be angry with shit like this, we can’t help but still fear the events the next few seconds can bring.
“Yes, you can. Can I have your ID?” the blond-haired officer says, gesturing his hand out.
“I’m reaching for my wallet, and imma do it slowly...ok?” Dondé says lifting his hands up, almost in surrender.
His right hand reaches for his wallet in his back pocket and he pulls out his ID. The train car watches the events, some recording, some stepping back. The less you see, the less of a reality it seems.
The officer snatches Dondé’s ID. “You’re 18,” he says before handing it to the dark-haired cop behind him.
He pulls out some handcuffs and slams Dondé’s body on the train doors. I watch his face hit the window and blood drip from his nose.
“Yo, what’d he do?” RJ asks, rising from his seat.
Before he can get out another sentence, the dark-haired cop drags RJ to the floor and gets on top of him. Keeping his knee on his back, handcuffing his hands together behind him.
“No! Please stop, what did he do? Stop!” Shae yells pushing on the officer, pleading with him.
“Underage drinking is a misdemeanor,” the blond-haired officer says before hauling Dondé’s bloody face to the ground. I watch as he kisses the floor, then as he stares into my eyes. His dark eyes scream for help and beg for mercy at the same time. They say good-bye. They say ‘don’t forget about me’.
“I...I can’t breathe...I can’t breathe,” RJ says on the ground, his body going numb and his eyes vacantly stare at the people watching.
The cop’s knee jabs deeper into RJ’s back and his hands go from handcuffing his hands to the back of his neck, pressing his head into the ground.
“Yo everybody drinks man. We’re 18! I could give you a list of white kids who started drinking younger than us. You gon’ do this same shit to them too?” Mercado yells in front of the dark-haired officer.
The cop ignores him.
“This shit is so fucked up. Again! Again! How many more?” Mercado yells again as he reaches for his phone in his jacket pocket.
And I watch it all in slow-motion. I watch the officer’s attention go from RJ to Mercado. His hands go from RJ’s head to his right hip.
The phone that Mercado wanted to pull out stayed in his denim jacket pocket. His dad’s denim jacket. Next to the pendant of his favorite gold chain sat his custom-made bullet hole. Like magnets, his body falls to the ground and sticks there. I watch as his soul leaves his body through his empty eyes. His green eyes. The green eyes that he got from his mom. The mom he couldn’t wait to see.
“NO! Mercado! No, please! No, please don’t leave us,” Shae says as she shakes his body, trying to wake him up from the everlasting slumber he’s fallen into.
But there’s no hope. There’s no waking him up. Cause he’s gone and that’s just the fact of the matter.
I sit on the ground, between an almost lifeless RJ and a dead Mercado. Dondé’s still on the ground and the blood from his nose and the tears from his eyes look like paint on his face. A work of art.
To be Black in America is to look both ways on a 1-way street. It’s the feeling of being strangled by the stems of the flowers you bloomed. It’s the feeling of knowing every face but your own. It’s drowning your blood in alcohol, spraying gas on a flame. Because the worst things in life come free to us.
Surrounded by recording cameras, I stare into one of them, a red phone that I see on the other end of the train. Hands soaked in blood, face drenched in my tears. Blood streaming down the train and the sound of RJ’s last breath whispers in my ear.


A work of art.
________________


Steve The Fisherman


Has obsidian-black hair 
pressed flush against his 
scalp like oil spilled
on southern shores.
        His Croakie
strap is stained by brine, guano, 
and pomade and tied loosely around 
his bronzed neck.
        He has sunglasses
and tinted lens which mask
his jet black eyes and
bushy eyebrows.
        His voice sounds 
Like a coastguard bullhorn – 
Full of static and cautionary tales.
His chiseled arms 
From chasing mackerel
Are ready to strike from
bow, aft, port, or starboard.
        He has baleen teeth 
that peek beneath his stiff 
upper lip when he cracks 
A gap-toothed smile.
        Most notably, the
Lines of his face trace the 
immigration of his 
Azorean ancestors to
New Bedford – the city 
that lit the world 
until the whaling stopped
and thrust the city into darkness 
like the void that engulfs the 
section 8 housing when the 
grid goes down.
________________


cape trip


it’s dark out when we leave-
fall in new england is dark and warm.
eight of us sit tight in a blue volvo, mahogany paneling
twinkling in blue night, drowsy with the knowledge
that there is someone to love (to fuck) in the city
and we go happily into the solitude of the ocean in the fall.


















































































The Uncovering


As the River Jordan ran red with wine
And the idols and icons turned to salt,
Christ on the cross grew goat horns and a grin
Through which bellowed a dragon’s laugh,
And we Knew then his clear, cruel joke:


The veil had stayed seamed;
The tomb is still shut.
The ministry meant nothing,
For loving seemed but a means to trick death,
While believers were cheated of life beyond time.
________________


Yesterday Me


I don’t want to be a knot that is tied
Or a small child who believes in the majesty of magic
When in reality the man in the top hat cheats—
because the coin is weighted
I don’t want to fall for feelings and call it love
And know, deep down, 
that I am a fool
I don’t want to feed the perfect dream
When I am the product of the nightmare
That once was cherished just as dear
I don’t want to love something and fail it all the same
I don’t want good intentions 
And provision of only scars that cannot heal
Or to carry a sleeping lion in my chest and flaunt a flower
When I know I am not beautiful
I don’t want to be a sequel—they are always somehow worse than the original
Though they set out to be better
I don’t want the burning coals of me
To char and blacken a blank white slate
I want to be spirit and wind
Not confined to
Nor risking
The trappings of commitment which so rarely come to fruition
I don’t want to tie the knot
I want to burn it
And, if nothing else,
To tie a noose and make my own
So that I can know for certain
That I will not become a monster
________________


GENERATION INC.        SEPT. 10, 2082


PRESS 
RELEASE


GENERATION CEO, MIKE BENNIKY, ANNOUNCES RETURN TRIP TO ENCELADUS BASE. 


Cape Town, South Africa and New York, NY, USA — Generation Inc. (Nasdaq: GENI) announced an expansion of their Collective Journey initiative launched 3 years ago. The Journey set out to establish a permanent base on the moon Enceladus in order to retrieve necessary water and ice for the Generation clientele and broader shareholders. This past week, the initiative grew to support three more technicians, a doctor, and a hydroponics engineer, all of which are set to launch from the Cape of Good Hope this coming Friday, September 13th. 


According to market researchers at the Institute for Sustainable Commerce (ISC), the move will boost supply of fresh water to the communities under Generation’s subsidiaries. ISC also reports that the change will make the company’s targets of 100% affordable fresh water available for all clients more realistic and “will provide more than adequate manpower to achieve company standards—even ahead of schedule”


“We are dedicated to making this initiative work for everyone, regardless of the pricetag,” said Head of Research and Development Arjun Mallory. “With the new crew enroute to Enceladus, the base will have more support than ever, a change that we’ve been pushing for over the past year and a half.”


CEO Mike Benniky addressed the company in an all-employee webcast this past friday, congratulating the teams that have worked on the project for the past month. “We’ve seen extreme flexibility in our employees’ abilities to adjust with changing timelines and shifting priorities. It is because of their tireless dedication to the Generation clientele that this launch will happen so soon.” Generation’s additional flight in their Collective Journey initiative will set the record for farthest manned flight for a rocket carrying 5 people.


Today’s announcement comes after an incident on August 12th at the station, which Generation plans on addressing in the future. “These plans have been in action since the beginning of the program” Benniky says “And more than anything, it represents our company’s willingness to venture to parts unknown for the betterment of our stakeholders.”


Media Contacts:


Generation N. America        Generation S. Africa
Secretary Jennifer Worl        Secretary Eliana Ajayi 
WorlJennifer@geni.com         AjayiEliana@geni.com


r/news - Posted by u/DeadNewsie 9/10/82


Generation Inc. Puts Out Press Release, No Comment On Incident
https://www.generation.com/press-releases/september/generation-ceo-mike-benniky-announces-return-trip-to-enceladus-base


u/XEmperor45 7 days ago
Ex-Generation employee here. This doesn’t surprise me. The company worked hard to keep its name out of the media and it shows why now. That quote from the press release leaves out the context... “The additional personnel added to Enceladus base comes as a result of the lost communications between Earth and their base on Saturn’s moon, a move that has proved costly. However, their new probe into Saturn’s orbit... will provide more than adequate manpower to achieve company standards—even ahead of schedule.” Kinda shady to do something like that, but not my prob anymore. Company should do more but they won’t. AMA. 


     u/Fearraiser 7 days ago
     When did you quit/stop working at G?


          u/XEmperor45 7 days ago
Stopped working a few days before we lost connection with the crew at Enceladus. They kept it under wraps so I don’t have much info on it. But I heard that some of the crew died. Horror stories went around about one of them killing the other. Wouldn’t be surprised if they’re sending a goddamn therapist on with the new crew. They’re gonna need it I bet.


 u/Fearraiser 5 days ago
Think anything will come of it? They just gonna push it under the rug?


u/XEmperor45 5 days ago
If anything comes of it, it’ll come 30 years down the line unfortunately. Worked there for over 20 years from an intern all the way to head of facilities. In that time they had a few threats of protest. But nothing came of those. Only time something happen is if news catches on. 


Edit: Holy shit this blew up. 30k upvotes.
Edit 2: OMFG what the hell??? 100k???


u/Fearraiser 1 day ago
NYT article just came out. Scary stuff. (link)


________________




Business
Generation Stock Plummets After Details Expose Dead Employee
  

By: Jim Frayle and Michelle Pope
Today at 6:00 am EDT


A tumultuous week followed Generation Inc.’s (▼109.66) recent launch into space, sending 5 more employees to their experimental base on Enceladus. The Saturn moon base has collected its fair share of backlash with many critics harking against its pricetag and lack of a return on investment. Yet, Generation’s successful flight this past Friday could not save the company amid allegations of media bribery and a disaster previously unknown that happened on its base in mid-August. 


Stories ran over a month ago claim that the base lost contact with Generation HQ in South Africa. An anonymous source from inside the company tells the New York Times that a loss of communications may be a cover-up for a far more sinister story.


“Everyone who knew anything was living and working in fear of reprisal” said the anonymous employee from Generation when interviewing with The Times’ Michelle Pope. The employee notes that many theories flew around the office during the past month, with many employees demanding a response from their superiors. When asked if they did the same, the employee decided not to comment. “It all changed when the press release went out.”
Employees threatened to strike against the company. What once was considered the nuclear option now was gaining traction as the only option. Federal law prohibits most strikes by workers in companies considered “essential” or “public services.” With Generation fielding over 100 million citizen’s fresh water needs, the legal battles risked by a strike were seen as “inconceivable and outright absurd,” says the employee. But many were willing to take that risk.


After executives at Generation caught wind of the protest, news broke about the death of one of the men on Enceladus. No details about the man’s death have come out except for the man’s name, Michael Cresson. Which leaves one sole man on the moon, Siddhartha Hill. 


When asked about how the workforce responded, the whistleblower said “Lots of us started to wonder… how did they know?”


For months, the story has been that a communications error shut down the connection between Enceladus base and Cape Town. “But now,” the whistleblower says, “the doors are open for conspiracy.” 


Generation denied The Times’ request for comment. 


This is a developing story. Check back for updates as more information becomes available.


________________


Excerpts from Prof. Mary Fann’s critical essay “Enceladus’ Folly: How Corporate Politics Translates into Cosmic Disaster,” Stanford University Press, 28 Sept. 2082. 


“… While the impressive nature of Enceladus’ new corporate base allows for exponential scientific inquiry into the surrounding cosmos, the fact of Generation’s corporate structure makes it a wholly inadequate victory and one that will surely be short-lived. Competitive hierarchies ingrained in the corporate setting force priorities towards all-or-nothing strategies of space travel where human lives are devalued and even forgotten altogether. In light of recent protests, the structures and desires of Generation (the company) does not align with that of Generation (the people it supports). With mechanisms in place that supply over 100 million people with access to fresh water, the failure of a company like Generation comes with backlash on a completely different level compared to that of one of its planet-bound subsidiaries. To claim Enceladus as anything but a PR stunt would overlook the corporate shortcomings of managing such an alien site as well the comical metaphor associated with Enceladus himself[1]...”


“… To consider the political ramifications of Generation within its South African home country would benefit a paper far longer and more in-depth. However, the consideration of the consideration itself must suffice as the political influence of Generation cannot be ignored. Generation as a company concerns itself with the welfare of the people to a point where dangerous expeditions like Enceladus and their previous “Collective Journey” initiative equate more to reckless earmark spending rather than the supposed innovation that the executives at Generation claim[2]…”


“… The distinct lack of government oversight and response following the folly of Mike Benniky leaves only one option, and the employees of Generation figured that out just recently when nearly 83% of them walked out. Where Generation claims to care for clients like their own people, what message does it send when nearly all of their people claim ‘everyone who knew anything was living and working in fear of reprisal[3].’ Moreover, what message does it send when their mission to Enceladus ends in their own employee dying?...”


________________
________________


[DECLASSIFIED - OCT. 15th, 2082]


Sidd, 


Maybe I should’ve said this sooner—but I need help. I can’t stop myself. It’s every night. Every fucking goddamn night. I come down to this stupid fucking window and look out, hoping, PRAYING that I might find something out there. A light that’ll cure me. A shooting star to… I don’t know, to wish on? I don’t need a wish– I need fucking help. 


Why do I think like this?? My mind is BROKEN. It doesn’t think right or it doesn’t think at all it just FEELS. It feels the urge to bend me like metal. And I can’t stop it. I’m weak. Every night it takes me and twists everything inside of me until I give in. Do you know what I mean? If you don’t maybe you never will because I can’t say it. I can’t admit it. WHY CAN’T I SAY IT EVEN NOW.


Please. I can’t do this anymore. It’s too dark. Too cold. Too quiet. I can’t do it. Please, if you read this, don’t judge me—I just need help.


Fuck it. Tell my sister that I died on the job. She’s too young to know.


Mike


________________


GENERATION INC.        NOV. 10 , 2082


PRESS 
RELEASE


GENERATION ANNOUNCES FOUNDATION TO COMMEMORATE EMPLOYEES OF ENCELADUS BASE. 


Cape Town, South Africa — Generation Inc. (Nasdaq: GENI) announced a new foundation today called ENROUTE, a philanthropic giving platform focused on combatting mental illness. “We want to thank the employees who put their minds and lives on the line for the betterment of our clients. Without them, we are nothing,” says Generation CEO, Mike Benniky during a press conference held during the launch of the new foundation. In its inception, Benniky himself offered $3 million donation with an addition $3 million in matching donations for Generation employees. The goal was met within the hour. 


ENROUTE works with global non-profits to bring mental health awareness to all of those in need, especially underserved and underrepresented groups. “Its a topic we rarely discuss as a society, and one that deserves more attention,” says the head of the foundation, Teresa Garcia. Generation currently plans to partner with organizations in South Africa, India, and greater Oceania, but has plans to expand into all its global markets early next year. 


The name is multi-representational. ENROUTE signifies the astronauts currently enroute to Enceladus as well as those who have yet to take off for future missions. Astronauts play a key role in Generation’s business affairs, and thus their place in the new foundation is crucial. The name also represents the help that Generation will provide all across the globe. “It is a vehicle for change,” Benniky says, “like the ships going towards the stars, Generation will go out to the people and to those in need.”  


Today’s announcement comes after an incident on August 12th at Enceladus base. “There are no words that can explain out gratitude and grief” Benniky says in reference to the deceased employee “It is Generation’s solemn hope that ENROUTE can live up to Michael’s memory and help those in need.”


Media Contacts:


Generation S. Africa                ENROUTE Foundation
Secretary Eliana Ajayi         Head of Operations Teresa Garcia
AjayiEliana@geni.com        GarciaTeresa@geni.com
________________
Two Fridas        Dos Fridas
Mexican women paint in blood
bled from one
broken heart,
tortured.
Beating machismo into the
bone of our brow.
two three four five
fingers grasp onto
dainty calloused palms.
Hair unadulterated
beauty on our lip
red and pursed
brown and coarse
hair that we pluck 
from our lip
and brow
tie it up onto splintered wood
and paint agency back on
beautifully masculine lips and brows.
Dip down
into blood
and paint.
Blood beautifully spilled
for you to perceive
and taste.
Freedom tastes of oxidized iron.
Paints my lips, too, red.
Mujeres mexicanas pintan en sangre
sangrado de un
corazón roto,
torturado.
Golpeando la masculinidad en el
hueso de nuestra ceja.
dos tres cuatro cinco
dedos agarran
palmas delicadas y callosas.
Cabello sin adulterar
belleza en nuestro labio
rojo y fruncido
marrón y áspero
pelo que arrancamos
de nuestro labio
y ceja
atarlo a madera astillada
y pintar agencia de nuevo a 
labios y cejas maravillosamente masculinos.
Sumergirse
en sangre
y pintura.
Sangre bellamente derramada
para que lo percibas
y probas.
Libertad sabe a hierro oxidado.
Pinta mis labios también, de rojo.




Throat Lozenge


Soar
No, that is not quite right. . .
Ah, there it is!
—Sore


Throat—


No relief
Inflamed like 
Ingestion of margarine
—Or perhaps lard


I desire
Un lozenge 


Where are you
Drug that makes me high


A result 
Of your “honey lemon with echinacea”
I wonder
What happens if I relish you
Without moderation


And dim the theater lights 
Till they go out completely
Ceasing the act
For good


—”eating too many cough drops can have a laxative effect”


Oh my. . .


. . .Nevermind
________________


Body of Drowned Man Washes On Shore of Mystic River
By Jackson Henney, Associate Editor


SOMERVILLE, Mass. — Last Sunday, the body of a man was found floating on the surface of the Mystic River. Standby accounts of the man told The Globe that the body looked “bloated and green.” The coroner’s office concluded that the victim drowned. Somerville Police are not willing to rule out fowl play at this time. 


“It’s a tragedy” said the Chief of the Somerville Police Department, Fred Morris. “Sad to see someone so young end up in such dire straights.” The man, whose identity remains unconfirmed, looks to have been “mid-twenties at the time of death,” according to the coroner’s office. 


The City of Boston launched an official investigation to look into the drownings after a similar situation happened the week prior, continuing the patterned drownings that have happened   
Passive verb. “occurred”
                                                                                             over the past 12 weeks. “The man found along the banks of Watertown leave us with little option but to investigate” Councilmember Margaret Larabee told The Globe last week.


“It scares me that my kids might have to see that,” Janine Haro, a local mother from Somerville says when asked about the incident last Sunday. “Of course, we never want something like that to happen to anyone in our community, but to see it in such a visceral way? It’s harrowing.” 
  
  

Fred Morris told The Globe that he planned on heading the investigation with Boston City Police, if given the opportunity. “This is my community,” Morris says, “and that means it’s my duty and the duty of all of us in town to protect our neighbors—its only a shame that no one helped these poor folks until it was too late.”      
These are unnecessary details. Omit.
Alongside the investigation, researchers at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) explored the currents of the Charles River in an effort to trace the location of these deaths. “Astronomical tides over the recent weeks have made detecting reliable patterns difficult. Boston Harbor, in particular, makes any sort of tracking difficult given the number of trade ships moving in and out on a daily basis.” 


Despite setbacks, researchers discovered that, if all bodies turned up in the Charles instead of adjoining rivers like the Mystic River, then chances are the drownings occurred within the river itself—not, as many have suggested, in the harbor islands.    
Sentence structure is overly complex.
Given the death of Thomas O’Dougherty 
Didn’t you say before that his identity is unconfirmed?
                                        last Sunday, NOAA’s unlikely scenario seems to have come true. A Boston Police representative told The Globe that officers would investigate the islands in the coming weeks. Given the frequency of these deaths, it looks like more people are set to die in that time.       
Overly subjective and comes off judgemental
Boston Harbor islands continue to mystify visitors with horror stories surrounding many of the islands’ pasts. The movie Shutter Island, infamous for its success as a psychological thriller makes it a cult classic in the horror genre—as well as one of the largest reasons for visiting the harbor islands and, specifically, Long Island. 
Off-topic, remove.
Based on data from NOAA, current trends show a clear passage between major islands such as Deer, Spectacle, and Long. When brought up with the Boston City Police, these ideas were pushed aside. “The islands will be swept comprehensively in due time” said a representative from the police force. “Please do not engage in these activities on your own.” They warned. 
You seem to be getting off track. These ideas are not yet fleshed out and are not 
the reason for this article. I recommend staying on the point about Somerville.  
I spoke with 
Do not use I pronoun. Remain objective.
        some other officers who were likewise interested in the events unfolding on the two rivers and began to notice an unusual pattern. Each person involved in the case came down with an invariable sickness—one that lasted multiple days and ended with a violent fit of mania. I have yet to catch this sickness but find it almost malicious.   
WC. Also, what are you talking about here. Sicknesses are not the focus of this 
article so you should be focusing on the death of the man in Somerville 
EXCLUSIVELY!!
On another note, the bodies definitely came from Long Island. Not the institution, but the lighthouse. I plan on going there soon and investigating myself. In an effort to bring backup, I enlisted the help of Fred Morris of Somerville Police. However, when I asked him to join the search, he refused to speak with me claiming that I “had gone off the deep end.”  
Completely off-topic. Rewrite.  
Alas, Long Island doesn’t allow visitors to stay the night as so I was forced to camp out in the brush off the shore. Nobody saw me. To my surprise, the lighthouse never turned on. The keeper himself must’ve been shot or otherwise killed. “A great keeper lets himself die before the light” the old man once told me. 


When I went inside, the ringing in my ears stopped and my head cleared for a brief moment. It felt euphoric. I found this on the inside wall—


The sea’s conscious of me  
Blowing the horn deep below
The siren call of sailors souls—
fester in salt down underneath. 
Listen, and you’ll here them screech.  


It’s an old song. Old like the bodies that’ve died here. Old like the ones that made ‘em die. So I stayed to listen like the song had told me. I stayed the night. Old westerly winds came and whipped through the light, banging metal against metal and wracking my brain so as to keep it from falling asleep. But, at some point, I cannot tell when—everything stopped.


I heard it. By God, I heard them all. The songs of sailors all sung from beneath the ocean’s muffle! Their throats full o’ salt and water made it sound sorrowful—but the song! It was a beauteous sound to behold! I held my head closer to the water! Closer and closer again! I must hate to admit it but I nearly filled me lungs with salt trying to listen closer! 


Argh! But I barked it all up. I went home. Even now I long for the sound of my brothers. So I’ll go back tonight. Listen to them one last time. You must hear them! I know I must. They sing for us all, and I only need to go a little deeper. 


________________


Body of Reporter Found Off Long Wharf, Scares Passersby
By The Editor


BOSTON, Mass — Last Sunday, the body of a man was found floating on the surface of the Charles River. Standby accounts of the man told The Globe that the body looked “bloated and green.” 


This is a developing story. 
















________________


Mentally-ill in Maine


Silence greets me in the white windswept woods.
The city sounds are stifled by the snow.
I tread on rubber soles, attentive to
the brevity of sound this moment holds.
I listen to my breath as I exhale
And watch it fill the divots in the snow.
My heart flutters. Does someone follow me?
I turn around, in part expecting them.
But no. It is my little sparrow perched
Delicately on a branch above.
The little sparrow cocks his head at me
And laughs. His wings stretch and morph grotesquely
Into fingers, forcibly entering
All of my orifices and soft spots.
Brown fingers, gnarled around my neck
Squeeze the air from my lungs, hot sticky sap
Expands, sits heavy in my gut, hardens.
The tree limbs snap. Contort into a cage
Brittle bones, now breaking 
My tears streak red down my porcelain skin.
The sparrows multiply around me
They scream and scream and scream until they stop.
I open my eyes to the empty woods
Displayed on my hospital room tv.
________________


Money doesn’t grow on trees, it grows in cannabis flowers 


My father
cultivates cannabis: the bastardly buds
hoot and holler. Forbidden fruit
cast out of the garden: teeming with life
and lustreful leaves.
Adam himself might cower: made a servant as
serpentine sativa sets roots in
Spanish soil: Monterey: Mountain
King.


        My father
cultivates cannabis. Family fractured
over budding green: money doesn’t grow on trees,
it grows on cannabis flowers. Family fortune
flourishing and mother nature
deflowered. Goodness: that is,
good hard work damned: the no longer taboo 
work of our people: no more 
dirt stained denim,
only dry cleaned 
designer: drugs.


My father 
cultivates cannabis. My mother 
conceals it: we hide in plain sight: our 
hispanic heritage helps: sheltering us from
the reality: that my father is nothing more
than a white skinned: brown skin: immigrant kin:
slave to a crop: that puts food on the table
just like his father: 
his father: 
his father: a brown skinned worker


that came to this country to
set roots: healthy roots are 
milky white: the man
who walks among the weed must be
white: on the outside: white concrete
houses clustered cannabis: budding
beautifully: roots breaking through the white 
concrete houses: itching for the rich brown soil
it came from.
________________


Sands Point Loop


Head wrapping around a new decade,
bar mitzvah blanket draping your shoulders.


I clutch the steering wheel,
exposing blue avenues in my forearm. 


Fallen branches pave Sands Point,
destined for a slot in my timeline.


Shuffling through nostalgia, picturing
clearly that Nor'easter in November.


I’m left craving your living room, 
lantern-lit afternoons and nights.


Laughter at Monty Python left
in coffee rings on the kitchen table.


Frasier disc sleeve flattened on the floor,
crumpled leaves under white sneakers.


You never finished that thought
before you got out of the car.


I drive home alone, tug my fleece sleeves,
and can’t get over the comfort of the floor.


I’ll follow you, follow you home.
How long since we last walked home?
________________
After the Rain


Meandering along the Blue Ridge
As the incessant whine of locusts 
Echoes through the valley


The baked earth and frigid air
Collide.
I watch the steam rise and 
Latch onto my pant legs,
Soaking into the fabric.


I keep thinking you’re here
With me―
A rustling of fallen leaves
The echo of laughter
Deep within the pines.


I nearly saw you
Climbing further up 
The ridge.
You danced along the cliff’s edge


I followed
Because I didn’t want you
To jump.


After all


There’s no reason 
To repeat
A wanton act.


I can feel God pressing on my shoulders
He has knocked me over
And He lays on my back
Unashamedly.


Maybe I deserve this guilt.


I hear a rib crack
I feel myself groan,
But I do not move.
I wait for the moment of escape


I need it to Rain
To have salvation pouring from
The Heavens.
To watch the spirits
Gasp and
Sizzle away,
To no longer
Be haunted by souls
Long gone.


And maybe then
I’ll sigh 
Close my eyes
And scream.
________________


i’ve never met someone so quiet in bed


you sit above me, flushed and mild,
rough midwestern thumb 
soft against the fleshy socket of my cheek


i’m on my knees- i’m always on my knees-
and i’m looking up at you 
and i’m saying with my mouth
“i am going to make you love me.”


and i do. i make you love me
for two nights a week
in the sallow dark of autumnal yearnings
________________
Zoomies
 “Kill me you little shit,” Grandpa Edwardo hissed, arms whipping the spokes of his wheelchair like a blistering treadmill.
“No!” Timothy Jenkins exclaimed, parkouring over empty cardboard boxes and discarded soda cans. He whipped his head back. “I love you pa, I won’t ever kill you for your powers!”
“If you don’t kill me, the other kids will turn you into a laughingstock!” Grandpa Edwardo said. “Little Timmy, the only kid who didn’t have the balls to take his ol’grandpappy’s powers. I rather die of shame than let that happen! This old raggedy body of mine is no use cept to give you a little boost on your way, can’t you see that Timmy? Why, when I was your age, I killed my grandpops and grandma with a good old revolver. Quick, painless, and to the point! Unlike kids these days.”
Spotting a nearby tree, Timothy Jenkins latched onto it and began climbing. “Over my dead body pa. You’re gonna live a dang good life, and pass when the tooth fairy can’t take no more teeth from your mouth.”
“I got dentures you fool!” Grandpa Edwardo said, slowing down. “Don’t you dare take this away from me Timmy. I have waited too damn long for your daddy to get me a grandson and I won’t leave until you have my power.
“Piss off pa!” Timothy said, now out of reach from Grandpa Edwardo’s grasp. “Go get back home and take your meds before you kill yourself.”
Grandpa Edwardo gritted his teeth. “Ungrateful louse.” he said. “Fine! I won’t press the matter further you little bugger. But don’t expect for me to die for you after you see all your friends get real zoomie powers.” Turning the spokes of his wheelchair once more, Grandpa Edwardo sped back to his evil lair.
________________
(Untitled)


Suffering is sensational.
The more harrowing the better.
People will read it and
feel as though they understand.


“It’s a fine thing that,
being misunderstood.” 


Joy is so generic.
It’s campy and generic
and cloyingly sweet.
The sun rises and the poet’s pen falls. 


        “He felt joy uniquely, and 
        expressed it just so.”
________________
22 years of pacing back and forth is enough pacing to lose yourself in your own kitchen


When the sun shines through
 the glass door  in the kitchen
 around ten  in  the  morning it 
makes     a     perfect     square 
of     light     on     the     wood.


I used to lie in the box of light, the warmth of the floor touching my bones.
I’d lie there and watch her familiar movements – the soft opening and closing of cupboards, the habitual cleaning of countertops, returning every so often to her cooling cup of coffee next to the stove. 
She would open the window and turtle dove songs would fill the room, carried in on a breeze so crisp that I could know without looking: oak leaves covered the grass outside. 


Now, there are fruit flies all over the kitchen. 
I stand in the entryway and stare at the floor – the paths worn into those yellow pine boards, the wood stain has all but rubbed away, revealing ghostly footsteps of a figure who exists only in my mind’s eye.
Through the glass, I can see an old windchime in the yard that makes the occasional attempt at music, but the strings are all knotted together; the fall weather has rusted the bells.


A spider in the sill spins its web
         and reminds me that 
I do not live in this house anymore.                 
Someone else has made a home
 of my sunlit sanctuary,                      
and I am trespassing here.
________________


Lost in Stripes


They never ask me
How is Waldo? Only where. 
I am lost in stripes. 
________________
RITUAL 


You obsess over the hiss  
of our moka pot, eager 
for a taste of pressurized 
bitterness, flowing naked 
across morning tongue.


Once, on a humid July day, 
you told me about how 
an Italian man insisted 
on making coffee for you;
how he didn’t wear grey 
flannel suits or speak 
hollowed language.


I recall this, poking 
the yolk sprawled before me 
with clinical precision, 
while you skim a drugstore 
copy of Anna Karenina long
forgotten in the credenza. 


Oh to be a scythe swinging 
Russian at harvest — what
sweet misery lies in silence. 
________________
Yellow Creek Rd 
        for Chloe and Ton


While she looks for a corkscrew, 
her bulldog is a pile of waterlogged laundry
on the kitchen floor, a hind leg stretched lazily 
like a lost sock not interested in rushing a reunion. 
His snores, like pennies plunked into a still fountain, plop 
beneath him and ripple through the stone. 


He looks angry from this angle. 


Outside, Bath is the same it’s been since I was born—
stubborn, only a little loud, sweet on the tip of your tongue
before your throat burns sour—
but my best friend’s bulldog is furiously sleeping a foot away,
and meaning plumes into the word hometown, as if I’d inhaled
after a storm, the air sopping and smelling like sorrow. 


A door closes somewhere inside me.
A door closes somewhere behind me, 
the corkscrew prodding dully into her palm.
________________
dam


“and then the dam breaks and you kiss.”


                                a friend said this to me once at a satirical asian restaurant.
                                there’s a boat in the middle and we sat in it.
                                i only ordered a plate of white rice.
                                i was so busy of thinking of other things that i couldn’t
                                focus on the menu, i digress often.


                                just one beer because i have a fake ID and i have to drive home.
                        i drove home, waiting for a natural disaster, yearning for thunder
                wanting to rush, to smother everything in my wake, to see i washed
        away ancient history, pluck pine trees from their roots, throw them
and all my caution, breathe and swell and swallow and be on the news.


                                but i can’t. i digress often and i know for a fact that
                                dams weren’t built to break.
                                you don’t build to break unless you are a toddler
                                with blocks. i don’t have any blocks.
                                when they make a state, they draw lines around it.


                                boundaries. i think we’re like arizona and nevada
                        gerrymandering in a bar basement. the hoover dam hates tequila.
                a bottle of es polon could break down a brick wall that
                                so many people died to make; 96 of them to be exact.
                                96 people died to make. so, so many people.
________________
Remission of Guilt


The little pink pill
portends a respite from reality.
I swallow it:


Per
mission to
give over
reign of my
brain to a
god who I
know will
refuse to re
mit


my sins.
________________
As Morbid as a Corvid


I stick my head into the grass
―Surprise, it’s me again―
Searching for
The golden kernels that fall from the stalk,
Clawing as they
Recede deeper and deeper into the soil.


I look up and bob my head,
Fluttering my wings indignantly,
Suddenly aware of your sickening presence.


You horrifying, treacherous thing,
Flapping your arms around,
Your mangled sleeves thrashing in the wind,
The uneven yellow fangs carelessly stitched into your face.
They are bared at me, 
Urging me to flee, 
And yet no sound comes out.


You never speak or yell or curse 
As you should.
You give me a deformed scowl and 
Let the wind sound your growls.


My beady eyes shift from side to side
And I caw at you:
―Why can’t you scream? Why can’t you shriek into the wind?
If you really hate me, 
Prove it!―


I flap my wing disparagingly at you, 
Slapping the hay shooting out from your sleeves,
A sorry excuse for hands.
I hear the hay rustle angrily.
How dare you crinkle those false limbs at me?


―Your entire existence is a fraud―
I squawk at you.
You have no power 
To protect the vegetation that lies behind you.
You simply spread negative energy,
Stifling the vibe with your face,
Like a decrepit clown. 


I shake my feathery black head.
You are a fool, and I am too,
For I have no reason to be speaking to you.


*


The little droplets of melted snow ooze into your
Wrinkled cloth,
Like hopeless tears
Staining the faces of the unloved.
You have been abandoned in the numbing cold,
Left to shrivel like a corpse.
The frostbite clenches down harder than your uneven fangs.
The wind whooshes louder than your crackling sprawled hay.


I land on your torn straw hat
And extend my scaly leg down,
Clawing and grasping at your felt eyebrows.
I tilt the brows upwards,
Turning your scowl into surprise,
Shock and hurt.


I bounce up and down on your threadbare shoulders,
Shaking off the mounds of chilling snow.
I crawl into the gaping hole in your left side
And settle into the tufts of stuffing.


I let out a rattled sigh. 
I guess I can stay here and keep you company for a bit,
But only a few waking hours, and that’s it!


*


The wind has knocked you down
From your post,
And I find you slipping into the 
Chunky spring mud.


This past year
After an ear-splitting shot 
Resounded through the air,
My partner disappeared 
In a cloud of blood and feathers.
Perhaps yours did too. 


I latch onto your pant leg
And pull and heave and sigh,
Dragging you through the slush,
Lifting you into the heavens
And onto a hole-covered roof.


A soft tutting noise escapes from my beak.
I cannot leave you in the cold as I have before,
Or else I know I’ll never find you once more.


Why wallow outside, 
Letting your insides fill with dread,
When you can stay in the barn
With me instead?
________________
Poem for America that regurgitates out of my mouth


They say I am a North American buffalo, 
the kidnapped beast. I held my breath prior, 
and arrived finally at home. 
My muted, wooly, tone-deaf patriotism. That’s the type of buffalo I am. 
The water sources I go to are not the clear, crisp, crystalline ponds of the wild wild west, 
but the blush-pink-beige-khaki-brown paint water left in the cup as you dipped your paintbrush in and out 
savagely as a child 
in the third grade art room. The cheerless, opaque grey that discontented me always. 


The buffalo who saw the emblazoned eagle memorabilia and serpent cynicism and wondered: about the cult of artisans which still ring their golden bells, 
about the witnesses who wear their dry-cleaned white, powdery, button-up shirts full of tetrachloroethylene from the dry-cleaners, yet let their mustard-yellow fledglings perish 
as their ribs and collarbones and ankles are swallowed up, guzzled, and slugged down by its own human carcass.
Rather than give them the bubblegum-pink antibiotic.
Those babes will never know the tang and chalk of the medicinal flavor, 
the big pharmaceutical companies never getting the chance to dance around in their fresh little nostrils, instead their bodies litter the sides of the roads; ribs, red and fat, lay exposed on the 
side of the turnpike like the baby back ribs of a roadkill deer. 


Military surplus stores where the titans of the primal earth would surely die as 
the smell of cobwebs, mustard gas, and molded nylon pricks tears in the down-turned eyes, wrapped up in the hair-dried cellophane of the suddenly shushed voices. 
Almost Americana, yet those uniforms are not real-estate, 
rather: the exoskeletons of their last owners now hanging on the clothes racks 
On sale. 
The masses sent out to fight who later learned they were always meant to be dead. 
The buffalo does not travel far– lingers by home, unable to leave it fully, finds a piece of it everywhere it goes. So brown and full and rich. 
Solid. 
In the wintertime each of its ribs are fully visible. The inside of a baby grand piano. 
The piling feets of snow blocking them from every happiness imaginable, but they do not even realize.
Rather to them, life has dealt them hell. They just keep going.
________________
Finding Wind


Sibilant and relenting,
The wind-wake abates
Around the roadbend,


Its remnants known only
In the shiver of the oak leaves.


A fingerprint of August,
Dusted by the stars,
Lies bare against the evening.


All is exhaled,
And for a moment, is breathless.
________________
Miles and Years


Dark motel rooms are a little like time machines— 
there’s something about being alone 
in that generic, indistinguishable room 
with sheets that are not quite white anymore
after drawing the blinds against the glaring curtain of the sun
that makes me feel like I might be anywhere,
or anyone for that matter, stripping away the years
like so many layers of dirty clothing until I forget
why I am here. Maybe I’m in another hotel room miles and years away 
listening to how my mother’s breath sounds like the ocean 
as she lies on her back, or the room with the shell box 
grinding out white noise to help me fall asleep, 
or the room laden with ocean-scented candles, 
a chemical replacement for that distinct blend 
of salt, sand, and sunscreen. I hold a shell against my ear 
listening to the waves sigh but I found out long ago it wasn’t real, 
just noise resonating between cold, hollow spirals
smoothed by decades spent tumbling in the surf
and to whoever explained away the mystery—
What do you know compared to the true believers?
Those who still put teeth under their pillows at night, 
who haven’t yet discovered the drawer 
in their mother’s vanity rattling with tiny, rotting teeth
smelling one to check if it’s yours, the acrid decay 
making you turn away, and I wish I could take it back,
the wonder of holding the ocean in my two cupped hands,
when I believed my mother’s breath
would be as constant as the tides.
________________
June 26, 1991


Early evening on Kenwood, 
late honey ink of June 
bleeding into July. A smooth quiet
in the house. Me, at my age, 
stepping out to water. Hostas,
magenta dragon snaps, 
roots stained violet.
He’s waiting for me
under the dining room table.
So young.
My sister gave me 
the pillow, 
over my face while
he rapes me, 
ugly, rotten
lemon, latch hooked seams.
Police take
pictures, take
fingerprints, take
underwear–
no, 
my husbands passed–
take the pillow away in a patrol car.
My daughter-in-law calls them 
some weeks later to
get my sister’s gift back.
Thirty years. 
My granddaughter
still calling, 
trying to get it back.
________________
ode to a friend of a friend who won’t remember


she’s perched herself on the bed
sweatshirt over her dress, drenched from the rain
i barely knew her, i barely know her
she’s reading my palm, she’s half leaning over


her friend lays passed out in her lap
happy birthday, twenty-one
i’m fragile, she says, i’m really fragile
but you guys know i’m whole lot of fun


someone has tied their shoes twice in forty-five minutes
all that time and she couldn’t do it once
she was a figure skater in a past life, can’t forget it
she’s very serious about what’s going on


skating on ripped tights and bummed smokes
typecasting everyone from some childhood show
i’ll give her a light if she’ll tell me the meaning
of who i have been, and what i should know
________________
An Appraisal 


Truthfully, this sadness is not worth much.
A couple nickels, maybe, a quarter on a good day, 
sloshing around the bottom of a receipt-littered handbag. 


I’m sorry, reader— 


no matter how many metaphors I weave this sadness into,
it’s only a few yards of fabric, not enough
to make something of it, but I am still sitting down to sew, 
every time imagining what the pain would feel like
if I pierced a needle through my thumb nail.


I’ve done it again, haven’t I? 


Really, this sadness is not worth much. 
Even if I hold it up to light and ask it
to project something sequined onto the wall, 
it’s just a slab of glass that
I’ve been holding onto for too long, 
generating enough pressure for it to splinter
into my palm, to slice
through my life line, and yet,
I don’t seem to bleed. 
________________
library coughs 


Symphony of library coughs,
what use have I for AirPods?
You, the perfect playlist
me, the involuntarily blessed


on a date some time in mid October
a Cough Cough Cough rings:
EhhghaHehgh!
KOOg ( kah )
ehhg  kh   
hg
khk
________________
Don’t Go Out Much


Her canines caught
against a strobe light,
their small dimples of bone,
craters on a full moon.
The music so loud in this bar,
you wouldn’t hear 
gunshots over it.  
Bullets bouncing through
chests, jerking 
torsos timed
with the bass, dancing. 
Six, maybe seven, shots
before I’d realize.
Her molars now,
glinting as she tips
her head back, laughing at
something I can’t hear.
________________
Honey Trap


Walking to my noon lecture,
I was coming up on a ten-ounce coffee cup, 
lidless, unsupervised on a granite ledge. 
There was a bee– no, two– no, three, 
orbiting the rim, taking turns swan diving 
across the cup’s diameter. They must be competing
for sun-warmed globs of honey hung on the inner walls. 
Parallel to their apparatus now, my view angled inward to see 
bees, at least a baker’s dozen,
a handful of winged Cheerios afloat in baby pink sap. 
What tea is that shade of rose? 
I want to send in the dive team,
but it’s two until the tower echoes twelve.
No honey in there, just a cup 
and a mass grave.
________________
Olives


I hadn’t realized
his eyes did that,
traded red 
oak for olive 
in the sun, until he slid 
into our small talk
without invitation.
Back to brown between blinks. 


Later, we’re laughing 
at an unsteady Kate, skating
across beer-stained carpet. 
Him looking at me, 
eyes all olive. 
I want to skewer them,
a drop or two into 
my martini, 
and slurp.
________________
hoo haa


he is the hoo haa
a most curious friend 
who wakes up at sunrise 
and sleeps at days end 


the hoo haa has a dumper 
a big ol’ fat ass
he shakes it in windows 
a hot jiggle of mass


you ask ‘who is this hoo haa
whose tush is so tight?’


why he is the hoo haa
he comes when it’s light
________________
House 
The house was without charm, and it knew it. The front yard – more a collection of dirt and rocks than a lawn – held a rusted metal chair, an ash tray with smoke tendrils climbing out of it all times of day, and two dirty plastic flamingos. One was missing a head. The front window was cardboard and duct tape. The paint peeled badly, as if an open wound from someone picking and picking and picking at a scab. The steps were splintered, the flowerboxes long ago stolen, and the porch railing was missing more wood than it had left. The frame threatened to give a massive creak at any moment, a last word, before cracking apart into a pile of rotting wood to release a cloud of dust up into the sky. 
         Once, long ago, the house had stood tall in its ramshackle but homely self. Nothing special – it wasn’t in a particularly new or nice part of town – but no one had ever been evicted from it and it still had all its major parts. It was the proudest not when it had just been built but when it was battered with the loving destruction accompanying a young family, the last tenants to move in. Two small kids ripped up handfuls of grass when they played outside and drew with markers on its walls. Stains from cooking big meals at family gatherings had soaked permanently into the kitchen ceiling. Water damage was under the tub from when the couple liked to fool in the bath with rose petals from their small garden. The house had been proud of all its marks then. 
The days were differentiated at that time, too. The house knew when it was Tuesday – that was spaghetti night. It knew of Fridays because the children actually received seconds on desserts when they begged, rather than just eye-rolls and “go-to-bed-alreadys.” Saturday, everyone would stay home in the morning, and in the afternoon some of the mama’s friends and their children would come over to play. And Sunday was when they dressed up fancy. The daddy would yell at everyone to “get going, we gonna be late!” but suppressed a smile when the children turned up at the door with mischief. They giggled, believing they’d finally gotten away with it because Daddy played along for a moment, pretending not to notice that Tristan was wearing Ellie’s dress.  
         The mama was the last one out the door without fail, wiping down the mess from breakfast in their kitchen or hanging clothes in the backyard so they would be dry when the family returned. She was always trying to get one more thing done before they left. The house had a special softness for her: she was the one who massaged it with rags and cleaning spray, tickled it with feather dusters and brooms, and shampooed the outside with the hose in the summer. She scooped decay out of the gutters and crawled below the porch to set rat traps. She tended the garden and washed away the dust from the plants’ leaves when she beat rugs outside. Back then, Mama had touched the house with love. 
* 
         The night the phone rang, the house had been creaking softly, rhythmically, while the family slept. Daddy stumbled out of bed, answered, and his face fell as the other end of the line spoke. He held out the phone for Mama, who had padded into the living room after hearing his concerned voice. She took the phone with only three fingers.  
As Mama listened, it was as though something invisible speared through her abdomen. Without leaving a hole or a trace, it doubled her over and sunk her to her knees. She started sobbing and hit the floor with her fist hard enough to make the house to flinch. She dropped the phone and it dangled by its cord, swaying in the air next to her head. Daddy crouched down to drape his arms around her, but with a sudden motion she stood up, grabbed a vase sitting next to the phone base, and threw it against the wall. The house barely felt that blow – it was too shocked. It had never seen Mama like this: screaming, crying, choking. This was not her. The house was at a loss; the only thing it could think to do was creak closed the kids’ bedroom door in hopes they wouldn’t awaken into this nightmare, too. 
         Mama lay on her side a few feet from the shattered vase, crying softly. Daddy tried to comfort her but she waved him away, facing the ceramic shards until he retreated to their bedroom. She struggled to breathe, and her eyes could barely open around the tears that filled them. After too long, her lids stopped trying as she started to fall into a fitful sleep there on the floor. The house made a nearby window swing open a crack. Perhaps a breeze might cool her into calmer rest.  
         Sunlight from the early summer dawn woke Mama only a couple hours later. The house watched her sweep up the leftover destruction. She started to cry again once the last broken piece had been cleared away, once the floor looked as if no vase had ever laid there destroyed. She sat at the kitchen table and stared down at it for minutes, perhaps hours, until the children staggered in with sleep in their eyes asking for breakfast. Her face was glazed as she prepared little bowls of cereal. It took longer than usual, and when she finally gave each child a bowl and a sippy cup, they said they didn’t want their cereal like that, would she make it again but do it like normal? Mama stared at them, confused. The house saw, a moment before she did, that she had poured orange juice into the cereal and milk into the cups – Mama turned away from the children so they wouldn’t see her wipe beneath her eyes before correcting her mistake with painful slowness. 
She lay in bed the rest of the day, although she did not close her eyes. When the other family members slept that night, Mama reversed – rising to go sit outside and chain-smoke on the front steps under the yellow-orange streetlamp glow. After four cigarettes, she pulled on hiking boots from the porch, clunked down the street in the muddy shoes and pajamas, and returned nearly an hour later with dark brown bottles. 
There were never bottles like that in the house, except for when extended family would bring some to gatherings. When they did, there were low, tense exchanges between Daddy and whoever brought it, gestures toward Mama. She never drank from them, but Daddy still checked in on her often. Only once was she not alright: when Tristan had asked for a sip of what Uncle Louie was drinking. Mama had smacked his hand away hard and rushed into the house to sit on the bed, her head in her hands and her fingers tight in her hair. It seemed to the house she had gone far away, and the body sitting there was the left-behind shell. The house had flickered its lights in effort to startle her into coming back, but Not-Mama hadn’t reacted; it was thankful when Daddy had appeared and coaxed her outside again, coaxed Mama back into herself.          So, the night after the phone call, the house was worried that she had brought back six bottles in a cardboard holder. She didn’t open or drink them. Just took them to the bathroom, climbed into the tub, and held one in her hands. Mama traced a finger along its smoothness, bumping it over the ridges of the cap, stroking it. It was as if she didn’t really see the bottle she was cradling, but somehow staring at it was still important. When the sun started to rise, Mama put the bottles under the tub, bunched up a towel around them using her foot, and went to bed.  
* 
         The house’s frame felt shaky the next day. Mama did not get out of bed. It was Saturday and Daddy turned away one-by-one her friends who came to the door. The children brought their mother roses from the garden – she half-smiled, lifted a hand just enough to brush it against their toddler noses, and rolled over, where she stayed for rest of the day. The house watched her lay in the darkness and tried to muffle the sounds of the kids playing elsewhere so she could sleep. But she just stared at the walls, her face unmoving. She had gone somewhere far away again, but this time when Daddy sat next to her for a while, smoothed her hair and asked if she wanted to talk about it, she didn’t respond. Even he couldn’t bring her back.  
Mama rose in the night once everyone was asleep and walked to the bathroom. She stumbled in the dark and caught the railing at the top of the stairs: the newel-post snapped off and the house flinched. Mama didn’t miss a beat, simply brought the chunk of wood to the bathtub, curling around it and the bottles together. It was only a few minutes before she popped the cap off of one with her teeth. The house tensed, unsure of what would happen next. She paused as she raised the bottle to her mouth, looked around at the silence of the AC suddenly shutting off, then closed her eyes and took a long sip. She drank three bottles that night. Each went down faster than the one before. She did not scream again, she did not cry, she did not hit or kick or throw anything at the walls. When she stumbled her way back into the bedroom as the sun began to shine, the bottles tucked back into their hiding spot, the house dared relax and the central air turned back on. Perhaps the bottles weren’t that terrible. Maybe they were even good. 
* 
         The children cajoled Mama out of the bedroom for a few minutes that day. She stood in the kitchen, watching them play in the living room while she slowly ate dry crackers, crumbs falling onto the floor and making the house itch. She dragged her feet through the mess to a bookshelf in the living room and sat on the ground in front of it. Pulling a large book onto her lap, it fell open and the house noticed it was full of photographs. Mama flipped slowly through the pages. Tristan walked by her deep in play, and she wrapped an arm around his waist without warning, pulling him to her suddenly. The boy started squirming, said Mama was squeezing him too tight, but she didn’t seem to hear it. Mama put her finger on one photograph and said softly that was Tristan’s uncle, look how adorable he was at Tristan’s age. The child wasn’t listening and twisted in her arms harder. Daddy walked in and hoisted Mama up, giving the boy a chance to escape, then guided her to the bedroom to help her dress in fresh pajamas. While her arms were raised over her head, he asked her how she was doing, would she please talk to him? She said nothing. Daddy sighed and let Mama fall back into bed.   
* 
         She drank the other three bottles that night. The house thought that would be the end of it. 
* 
         In the morning, Mama rose and dressed herself, not in her normal pantsuits but in an old, loose dress. To the delight of Daddy, she said she was going for a walk. When she returned over three hours later, the house was empty – it realized it was Monday – and Mama came inside with a brown paper bag. In the bathroom, Mama pulled out a single but very large bottle from within, put it under the tub with the soft towel, and walked to the bed. She only rose once it was nighttime, and she drank one-third of it. The house didn’t like the smell that came from within. Daddy, Ellie, and Tristan all emerged from their rooms the next morning dressed in black clothing. Daddy had poked Mama when he woke up, but she had grunted something that sounded like “no, I can’t,” and the other three left without her. Later, Mama sat in the backyard on the grass and cried softly for a long time and smoked. When everyone returned, she wiped her hands under her eyes and went back to bed.  
The children were subdued that evening, and Daddy asked if ordering a pizza would cheer them up? They nodded, asked if Mama would eat with them. He didn’t respond, so they padded into the bedroom. But when they called her name softly from the edge of the bed, she pretended to be asleep. Later, after the pizza had been delivered and they were all eating, minus 
Mama, the house realized it was Tuesday. They had skipped spaghetti night for the first time. 
* 
         Sometime later in the week, the house couldn’t be sure of when exactly, Mama was alone and the phone rang again. The house creaked anxiously as she answered it. Nothing was thrown this time and there was no screaming. Mama simply hung up, went to the bathroom, and drank the last of the big bottle. The house sagged: this was the first time she had opened a bottle in the daylight. And when Daddy climbed into bed that night, she said her boss had called, she was finished, and the house watched him rub his palms into his eyes. Its beams ached for the couple that lay a foot apart in bed – it wished they would hold each other again like they once had. But the next morning was when Daddy found the bottles, and the memory of their old love became even fainter, further away. 
         Daddy was yelling even before he had come fully out of the bathroom. Mama was sitting at the dining room table with her head in her hands. She was silent as he held up a bottle and said why didn’t she come to him if she was hurting so bad? She didn’t move, didn’t respond. The children watched from across the room, and the house had the radiator behind them make the scary noise to send them scampering from the room. Just in time, too, because when Daddy fell quiet, Mama erupted. Something had come unscrewed. Or maybe something had screwed itself tighter inside of her. But either way, she stood up and began screaming at him that he didn’t know what he was talking about, that he didn’t know what she was going through, that he should shut the fuck up already. Mama grabbed her slipper from her foot and threw it at his head. The house watched her elbow Daddy out of the way and felt her slam the bedroom door painfully. 
* 
         The next several weeks continued like this. Mama left the house only to go for long walks. She always returned with a paper bag. She stopped hiding the bottles in the bathroom and kept them right in the kitchen. She moved from the tub to drinking at the dining table each night. 
Daddy would approach her every few days, start out in a gentle voice about needing to get help, about him being concerned and loving her. She would either ignore him or yell, and he’d yell back. The kids would run to the closet in their room, and the house would let a draft slam closed every door between them and the fighting to quiet the terrible sounds as much as it could. 
The day following an argument, Mama or Daddy would apologize and promise to do better. She might go one night without drinking, actually cuddle with him in bed while he slept and she stared at the walls. They even started fooling again, once in a while, usually after Mama asked Daddy to make her feel something. One night, she swung her leg around and sat on top of him, moving so fast and in such hard motions that the bedframe banged violently against the house and left aching marks on its walls that never went away.  
She was in a good mood the next day, only had one drink in the afternoon, and tried to pull Daddy into bed again when he came home from work. He said no, he didn’t like last night, he didn’t want to do it again. Mama raised her voice at him, and he matched her. He turned and marched into the kitchen where the kids were eating an afternoon snack. The house lost power, desperate to distract them out of their fight, but they paused their screams only for a few moments before continuing on in the dark. Daddy began pouring a bottle down the kitchen sink, and Mama shoved him hard and tried to wrestle it away. It slipped from both their grips and shattered. Mama looked up at Daddy for a few seconds, slapped him, then walked out the front door. She kicked the head off one of the plastic flamingos on the lawn. Paying no mind, she disappeared down the street and returned in the moonlight with multiple paper bags. 
* 
The movement out of the house began slowly. Mama’s friends stopped coming and neighbors walked by with fast feet and downturned heads. The children started to sleep over at friends’ regularly. The house couldn’t be sure, but it seemed that they were gone even on weeknights now. Daddy stopped reaching for Mama in his sleep, then moved to the couch, and finally took to sleeping in the kids’ room. Mama spent all her time sitting on an old lawn chair outside, smoking and drinking. The house didn’t mind: she hurt it almost every time she was inside now. It simply watched her sit, from behind a thick layer of summertime dust she was never going to wash off, while the yard became overgrown with weeds and the roses drooped and browned until finally dropping dead.  
One day, after staring at the fallen flowers for a while, Mama got on her hands and knees before them. A cigarette dangled from her mouth and she crawled her way forward with a smaller, dark brown bottle. She lifted it up and slowly tilted it until a thin stream of liquid ran out of it to the base of the bush. Mama let it pour until it was empty, then went into the house and gathered the big bottle and four smaller ones into her arms. Back outside, she drained all of them onto the dead flowers until there was nothing left. That night, Mama went to Daddy, apologized over and over until he finally took her in his arms again. The house let itself relax the next day, settling with noisy creaks in its foundation, when Mama scrubbed her way through four sinkfuls of dirty dishes. Perhaps things would go back to how they were. 
* 
The rose bush never bloomed again, and Mama was drinking from new bottles by the end of the week.  
* 
Eventually, Daddy stopped coming home, too. He said he couldn’t do it anymore, that he was in love with a sick person who wouldn’t get help so he was taking the kids to his brother’s. Mama grabbed one of the children’s wooden blocks and hurled it at him. It missed and went through the front window. The house hardly registered the shattering. It already sagged from the weight of dusty shelves, a roof that leaked on days it didn’t rain, dirty laundry left sitting for weeks, sticky and crumby floors, gutters overflowing with leaves and moss, ants that had taken to the kitchen where filthy dishes covered every countertop. Now, trapped alone with Mama in the cooling weather, the house let its heat give out for two weeks and she came down with pneumonia. It felt guilty but still blew out all the fuses in a stubborn anger when the repairman came to fix the furnace so no work could be done. It made her feel its rainwater tears dripping down the walls and bubbling up underneath the paint. Every once in a while, she would poke one with a sewing needle and the water would release and both Mama and the house would sigh deeply. But then the next day, she would go crashing around with her bottles again, and the house would shake back.  
They were tumbling, locked too tightly together. Neither could pull away as they fell down an impossibly deep spiral. The house was desperate to crash land already, to smack into the bottom and shatter once and for all. But every time it thought about giving out altogether, letting both of them finally rest, it noticed a tear on Mama’s cheek or the corner of her eye looking at the broken frame on the ground holding a photograph of the family from a time when she could still smile. The house watched her hurt and told itself it would just give her today. Perhaps tomorrow would be different. Maybe she would start to change back the next day. It could wait until then. The house could wait one more day. Just one more day. 
________________
A Letter from God
Dear Creation №906Б22О1Г, 
I am writing to you today to bring your salvation or as Creation 666 tells me, damnation. But honestly, who believes in 666 anymore? As you hear the words of my vessel, heed them carefully or else great woe shall betide you. Locusts will devour your soul, your girlfriends will dump you, and blah blah blah you know the drill. Jesus, who wrote these God-awful lines? I did? Ridiculous, the vessel must have a speech impediment. Parkinson’s as the mortals call it. Vessel you weren’t recording that correct? You were? Ah, keep it in, it’s not like it matters. 
Anyways, as you probably know by now, I represent as you mortals understand me to be, a God. And as a God, I have nurtured you from the primordial ooze that creamed your planet Terra from the smallest ectoplasmoid implant to the largest hivemind network by at least three universes. I admit, there have been times when you teetered on the edge of extinction. But you breed like to rabbits so than no bubonic plague or nuclear disaster will completely wipe you out.  A little hardship here and there and look at how far you’ve come. To say that I’m proud would be a lie, but I do feel a tickle of satisfaction from time to time. 
Now to the matter at hand. I, the benevolent creator of your mighty universe, have done such a good job in culturing planet Terra that I have been offered many requests to oversee the creation of new universes. I usually ignore those requests because let us be real to a crystalline extent, a God who can’t manage his own pocket universe deserves the eventual decent into chaos of its creations. However, one particular request came from the God whose name is akin to an animatronic door-stopper making love with an eco-sourced toothpick. Such a thought might boggle your puny minds, but it makes mine shiver with pleasure. Door-Stopper-Toothpick-Lover is among the better of the God Architects, and he, it likes to be referred to a he, wants my assistance in overseeing the creation of a new, better Terra. 
He calls it the Better Terra, but I personally think that the naming could be improved. So, it is with minor regret that I have selected you to read this message, so that at least a handful of mortals will know of the situation this fine New Year’s Eve. Don’t call, don’t pray, it will only go to my inbox where it will not be heard or read save some of my angels who have collectively failed to get a life. Seriously, if Lucifer could do it why can’t they? When my work is done. I will return. Either you will be long gone by then, or nothing will seem to have changed. 
Just in case, however, if Door-Stopper-Toothpick-Lover likes my work so much to employ me for eternity, I have called in a replacement God. It calls itself a monster, but I have never seen a monster that also doubles as an Italian culinary dish. No matter, starting 2020 he will take over my position. Don’t worry, everything will be fine. I pre-drafted all the events from 2020 forward and even backed up most of the 1900s in case one of you wily bastards figure out time travel and try to kill Hitler. When the Spaghetti Monster inputs the schematics of predestination, please do leave feedback in some way, perhaps via internet archive or after death. I would love to read about it sometime (not really). 
The Honor is Yours. 
God 
________________


The Living and The Dead
        “You shouldn’t smoke,” Giovanni Pontano said, gesturing to the cigarette hanging deftly from his wife Lidia’s lower lip. 
        “What does it matter now?” Lidia said, locking eyes with Giovanni before turning away towards the window. 
        Lidia had been in the Istituto Clinico Humanitas – the premier hospital in Milan – for three months. For the first two months, she seemed to be steadily recovering from whatever mysterious ailment had assailed her one night at the Gheradini’s cocktail party. One moment, she was laughing effusively with the rest of the houseguests, scratching her histrionic itch in a game of charades. The next she was slumped over her armchair, complaining of a fierce headache and begging Giovanni to take her home. Although the Pontano’s never identified the precise cause of Lidia’s illness, it didn’t matter much considering her rapid recovery over the course of two months. That is, until things fell apart.
        About a month ago, Giovanni had been compiling the manuscripts for his debut collection of short stories La Stagione. Day and night, he sifted through the papers strewn about his study and scribbled notes to his editor in the margins. Giovanni’s manic revision process combined with his distracted forays into rereading Dos Passos made him oblivious to Lidia’s worsening condition in the hospital. Eventually, Giovanni stopped answering the phone altogether and the hospital nurse was forced to drive to the Pontano residence herself and bang on the door. Plying Giovanni with the promise of booze, the nurse convinced him to return to the hospital room where he now stood, Negroni nestled between calloused hands, staring at the woman he used to love. 
        The nurse barged into the room, calling Giovanni and Lidia back from their reverie. “How about some music,” she offered. Giovanni shrugged and nodded in Lidia’s direction.
        “No, that’s quite alright,” Lidia said. “I have Gio to keep me company.” She shot a forced smile in his direction and the nurse beamed, smiling widely. 
        “Oh, signora,” the nurse said. “I must say that you and Mr. Pontano make such a lovely couple. I saw your pictures in the papers and, ugh, what I would give to look like that. What was it you were wearing?” she asked with the eagerness of a gossiping schoolgirl. “Dolce e Gabbana? Prada?”
        Lidia looked at the nurse in the same way she looked at the overexcited volpinos of bourgeois dinner parties, the puppies that ate better than half the people of Milan. 
        “It was actually Valentino,” Lidia said. 
        “Valentino?” the nurse said. 
        “Yes, it’s a new house – founded only two years ago.” 
        “One year ago,” Giovanni muttered.
        “What?” Lidia said. 
        Giovanni placed his Negroni on the windowsill and turned towards the nurse and his wife. “Valentino was founded one year ago, not two,” he said sternly. Lidia scoffed and shook her head, a wry smile surfacing on her lips. Giovanni picked up his Negroni, swirled the remaining liquid, and downed it in one loud gulp. 
        “Well, anyways, the clothes were just terrific,” the nurse said, anxious to fill the silence. No one responded so she spoke again. “I mean, that dress Lidia –  che bella. The silk bodice and the lace trim! I would kill for that dress.” 
        “Well, Anna,” Lidia said. “At the end of the day, a dress is only a dress.”
        “People have killed for less,” Giovanni said. 
        Anna laughed nervously and then left the room. Neither Lidia nor Giovanni said goodbye. 


The hospital itself was part of a larger complex that included two identical condominiums, an office building, and a mall. Directly across from the hospital was a six-story shopping center. Beside it were the rubbled remains of the church torn down to make space for this concrete edifice. Metal scaffolding snaked up the sides of the shopping center and men in hard hats scampered along metal beams holding drills, saws, and hammers. The din of metal-on-metal could be heard even over the steady thump of the fan that puttered ceaselessly above Lidia’s bed. 
        Although the cement blocks of the shopping center were varying shades of brown, Giovanni and Lidia were alike in seeing the shopping center as utterly colorless. As if by asphyxiation, the once-vibrant colors of the streets below lost their luster with the increasing altitude. Wisps of moped reds and navy peacoat blues yielded to the brutalist blocks of gray cement that towered like smokestacks over the cities of the plain. 
        The walls of Lidia’s room were also gray and the room itself was sparsely furnished. In addition to the bed, there was a ratty couch in the corner and a nightstand upon which sat Lidia’s medication and a glass of water. The only items adorning the walls were a couple painting reproductions, a calendar with pictures of various tourist sites of Rome, and an analog clock. When the hour hand struck four, there was a knock outside. Lidia said “come in” and Giovanni didn’t say anything. 
        A man in a creme dinner coat and light blue linen shirt walked in. He was a couple inches taller than Giovanni and about five years younger. A pair of wayfarers fit snugly in his breast pocket and furls of chest hair peaked over the top buttons of his shirt. Despite coming from his day job in the banking district, he looked perfectly suited for a summer holiday on the Amalfi Coast, his blonde hair tousled in a sun-baked heap. 
        “Ciao Lidia!” he said, thrusting his arms around her in a warm bear hug. “Oh, if you only knew how worried I have been, how many sleepless nights I have spent anxiously awaiting sweet dreams of you.” 
        “Paolo!” she said, clearly flustered. “What are you doing here?”
        Giovanni poured himself another Negroni and feigned composure. Truthfully, he was sizing up Paolo and speculating about his relationship with Lidia. Compared to Paolo, Giovanni looked decidedly plain. He wore a slim-cut suit with a thin black tie clipped to his shirt. His wire-rim glasses were perched precariously on his slender nose and – combined with his severe bone structure, beady brown eyes, and austere comb-over – lent him an almost-avian appearance. Perhaps their most significant divergence in identity, however, was with regard to their respective careers – Giovanni was a sensitive intellectual whereas Paolo was an accomplished financier, a practical man’s man. 
        “Yes,” Giovanni said coldly, “turning from the window. What are you doing here?” 
        “I heard Lidia was sick, and I rushed here at once,” Paolo said. Neither Giovanni nor Lidia looked at each other. Both remained silent. Paolo hesitated and his brow furrowed, revealing a mixture of equal parts consternation and amusement. The fan continued to putter weakly overhead, its screeching whines drowned out by the noises of heavy machinery from out the window. “Darling,” Paolo said, gazing tenderly at Lidia. “Have you not told Giovani about us?”
        Lidia lit another cigarette and sighed. “What does it matter now? Love’s lifespan is only as long as its beholders, no?”
        “Is that your own line?” Giovanni said. 
        “No, it’s yours,” Lidia said. Giovanni grunted but did not speak. “From La Stagione, don’t you remember?”
        “La Stagione!” Paolo said. “I didn’t you were the Giovanni Pontano. I’m a fierce admirer of your work, signore.” Paolo extended a hand towards Giovanni, but Giovanni did not shake it. 
        “That’s some consolation for sleeping with my wife,” Giovanni muttered. 
        “What was that?” Lidia said. 
        “Nothing,” Giovanni said. “It was nothing.”
        Lidia shrugged and returned to smoking her cigarette while Paolo stood awkwardly between them. He started whistling.
        “Uncomfortable with silence?” Giovanni said.  
        “No, not particularly,” Paolo said. “I just enjoy music.” 
        “Music is the exception to the rule, my friend,” Giovanni said. “We are surrounded on all sides by a vast, impregnable silence. And its walls close tighter with each passing day and second. It’s as if we’re butterflies ensnared in a spider’s tightening web.”
        “I don’t follow.” Paolo said. “Are we the butterflies?”
        “We used to be,” Lidia said wistfully. “When we were young and beautiful.”
        “Were we ever that way?” Giovanni said. 
        “I think so,” Lidia said. “A long, long time ago.”
        The smell of sawdust from the construction permeated the room and caused Paolo to stop whistling and cough. Lidia smoked her cigarette and Giovanni sipped his Negroni. 


Paolo was forced to leave a couple of hours earlier and return to his wife and family so as not to arouse suspicion. Meanwhile, Lidia’s condition had worsened dramatically. Her olive skin had whitened to a corpselike pallor and, regardless of how many blankets she nestled under, she was still shivering uncontrollably. Flies and moths circled above her in anticipation, occasionally diving down to suck the perspiration from her sweat-laden locks of auburn hair. She dabbed her forehead with a handkerchief, but the beads of sweat kept trickling down like the droplets on a tea kettle. 
Around suppertime, Anna brought in some fruit – dates, apricots, and grapes – and nuts – cashews, pecans, and almonds – as they were the only foods Lidia could stomach in her ailing state. 
“Do you need anything else?” Anna said. 
“No, I’m fine, thank you,” Lidia said. Anna smiled and turned to leave. “And Anna,” Lidia called after her. 
“Yes, Ms. Pontano?” Anna said. 
“Thank you so much for your help.”
“Of course. It is my pleasure.” Anna turned to leave, but, this time, Giovanni stopped her. 
“Tell us, Anna,” he said. “Are you married?”
“No, Mr. Pontano,” she said. “I’m not, but I’m engaged to be married to a law student at the university. He wants to one day be a writer like you.” 
Giovanni stroked his chin pensively and nodded. “A writer, hmm,” he said. “Well, that’s terrific. I only have one piece of advice for you, Anna.” 
“What’s that?” she said. 
“Don’t marry him,” he said. 
“Giovanni!” Lidia said sternly. “Don’t speak to Anna like that.” 
Giovanni was pleased. He had Lidia’s attention for the first time that day. “What was it Dickinson said? Tell all the truth but tell it slant. What pitiful advice. Tell me the truth, Lidia – the unslanted, unadulterated truth.” 
“I don’t love you anymore,” Lidia said softly. “I may have once but that was a long, long time ago.” 
“But you love Paolo,” Giovanni said, his jowls flapping, face reddening. “Say it. I know you do.”
“Giovanni, please,” Lidia said. “Let’s not do this in front of Anna.” 
“Basta! Don’t patronize me.” He turned to Anna. “Anna, vada via.” Anna bowed quickly and scurried out of the room. 
“Happy now?” Lidia said. Giovanni didn’t say anything. “And, no, I didn’t love Paolo. I haven’t loved anyone since I died. And I died a long, long time ago.” Lidia coughed up blood, the red blotches staining the white linen sheets. 
Giovanni didn’t move to help Lidia and instead merely gestured to the sheets saying, “They’ll think I stabbed you.” 
“Would that really be so bad?” Lidia said. “If my life can’t end in ecstasy, I’d rather it end in agony. Leave behind something for the poets to write about.” 
“I don’t think I’ll write about this,” Giovanni said. 
“Why not?” Lidia said.
“Because I feel nothing.”  
Lidia laughed and started gasping for air. Then she fell silent. Giovanni shook her and she didn’t stir, so he took the cigarette from her fingertips and left the room, a spectral cloud of smoke in his wake. 
________________
for your consideration


I offer it up,
bloody and vital,
onto your butcher’s block


Cut into it. Tear it apart. 
Maybe in the autopsy
you’ll find something true. 


You can discard it if not.
But if you do,
save a morsel of it. Save two. 


I wish I could offer more:
something beautiful, 
something concrete. 


But all I have is 
a pound of flesh;
A pound of paper.


In red ink,
hesitantly, I write,
“for your consideration”




________________
[1] Vergil. Aeneid. Theodore C. Williams. trans. Boston. Houghton Mifflin Co. 1910. Book 3, Lines 570-585.
[2] Generation. (2082, September 10th). Generation CEO, Mike Benniky, Announces Return Trip To Enceladus Base [Press release].
[3] Frayle, Jim. Pope, Michelle. “Generation Stock Plummets After Details Expose Dead Employee.” The New York Times, 17 Sept. 2082.﻿Buddha Statue 
[PC] [GL] [LB]


 Once there was a person who said to me in a mocking yet not unserious tone: "There is only one God."  I was in disapproval.


 The Buddha statue was rolled in a towel and slept in a cardboard box. When it was taken out again, the paint on the eight corners of the base was reduced.


 I placed it carefully in the storage cabinet next to the bathroom, alongside the cheapest items: bicycle cushions, nylon cable ties, and some disposable bolts. Detergent and soft towels folded into squares, on the other hand, lie quietly under them.


 In doing so, I carefully separated it from the Gideon's Bible. 


To avoid interference with each other, the Bible was placed high up on the bookshelf.


Today, I took out the Buddha again.


 I gently put it on the freshly polished dining table. It was bathed in the dim light.






Zixuan ‘Abraham’ Wu








































do not count the cost
[PC] [GL] [LB]


Like the taxicab
Coming to bring me home
i give it to You instead




-Mary Rose Corkery
































































birthing dopamine 
[GL] [PC] [LB]
 
he  doesn’t dance anymore
he  doesn’t walk anymore
he  doesn’t yearn anymore
 
tether me home again
 
don’t dance with me  ha
don’t sing with me  ha
don’t be with me  ha




        Brenda Ruiz




















































Where the Sheep Are (No Longer)
[PC] [GL] [LB]


The train takes me
to Watergate Lane. I travel
alone – sweater zipped,
suitcase zipped, two-teeth
pulled, locked, into each other –
compact. Sheep in the distance –
the young coddle the old
until they become the old
and have to give the love
they once received. Milk –
sent out to front porches,
set out on front porches to cool
for a child to suckle, hungry;
for a boy to gulp, growing;
for a mother to bake, worn.
A city now – unfolding
from the two-teethed tracks
stretching into the heart
where she sheep are
no longer.




        Ashley Trotter
























cravings
[PC] [GL] [LB]


the woman ate mangoes
spoon after spoon of
halves after halves of
smooth shiny wet solar orange
yellow-skinned


fruits cradled in one large hand
rough fingers curled around a sticky knife
dipping down to pierce taut peel and
split fibers in two.


under the window[a]
she feels the scrape of the spoon
against her palm
through the slick skin
shaving away the last layer
of cold sun-fed flesh
and desires more




        Julia Pangan
































My Tugboat, an Island Alone
[PC] [GL] [LB]


Above, the cotton clouds gathered
as the light lowered. Below,
(a mirror), the marsh
released its greens and blues
(dragonflies, herons),
to be replaced by the gathering grey above. I sat alone,
my tugboat an island alone,
waiting for the rain to fall. I remembered Mum,
(her face) red and white and water,
when Father didn’t return that night
from the casino. Silent weeks passed
(years). When I called her earlier
she asked how he was and I lied and told her
fine, a little grey (the weather) and hung up
to paddle out to feel (what I imagined
to be) his tears touch me.


        
                Ashley Trotter




































The Hills of Montmartre
[PC] [GL] [LB]


In my dreams they have more elevation,
the roads – swirling things, locked together by cobbles.
Tucked between the pastel hues of les appartements,
a vineyard from the years of Louis XIV
produces small purple grapes; when we pass on foot
we mistake them for raisins; laughter bubbles up
as they pop in your mouth.


At the top lies the heart: le Sacré Cœur – you can climb it
if you dare – swirling staircases leading to a pillared dome.
Grape remnants taint my breath as I ascend.
We emerge together – all of the city opens
beneath us. Drink it in you say and I pull in a breath of air
imagining the view to be wine; my lungs
hold it tight. I’m fearful
if I exhale all the bâtiments will crumble away.


                Ashley Trotter






































Don’t Bother
[PC] [LB] [DU]


Flipping pages in the dead of night,
I rub my drooping eyelids. 
The crickets chirp outside,
And I know that they’re laughing.
A bucketful of chuckles and scorns
That perhaps we may deserve,
And a sudden revelation
That I’ll never fall asleep alone. 
 
The lamp still shines on,
Making a sharp fizzing sound,
A crack every now and then
A pop.
Let the light crack as I crack.
Not a soft glow,
But cold fluorescence
Fit for the institution this house has become. 
 
The bed seems to be getting narrower
Each day.
The Mattress Eater―I call it.
Comes in the daytime and bites off
Chunks when I’m not there. 
There’s no space for you beside me anymore.
Don’t bother coming in and trying to sit―
You’ll fall right off the edge.
 
Absence intrigues me because
You weren’t really there to begin with.
The smog that infiltrates the mind
And thickens with each passing hour,
An inattention to light and breath and sound.
What did I just say?
I bet you didn’t hear. 
 
You have a gift for saying what you do not mean,
A talent
For painting blizzards on white canvas,
An aptitude for hide and seek. 
 
So go forth
And hide behind those bushes,
Clamber up that tree.
But when you get to the top
Don’t bother looking down at me. 
 
The blinds are drawn. 
The window is shut.
And the crickets are laughing.




                Louise Faitar


















































How the Giant Falls
[PC] [LB][PB]


Pointed tusks of ivory
And splintered shards of
Whittled bone,
Butchered skin
And blood-soaked hides
That rot in the dense jungle.
The Giant has fallen
Along with the
Muffled
Strangled
Trumpeting of Kings cut down,
Cornered criminally across the
Coveted continent.
Can you hear the cries,
The heaving and final sigh
Just before the body lies still?
Can you see the pools of stifling crimson
Dotting the savannah,
Sinking into cracks of parched soil?
Does your gun grant you governance over
This sacred ground?
Have you gone
Deaf
To the screams and
Blind
To the struggle of the abused?
Look into that bloodshot eye and tell it
That it deserved to die.
Wipe the tears wetting the leathery―


Hide.




                Louise Faitar






i kept my grandmother’s sewing kit 
[PC] [LB][PB]
 
because i was fascinated by repair— 
with the way that the women in my family
choose to handle 
the brokenness of men.
My Pop-Pop, as i knew him,
was a saint— 
but first he was an alcoholic 
who ripped his slacks stumbling out of Don’s
on a Sunday afternoon.
Traipsing down Chester Pike 
like Dionysus in Thebes,
dressed in stranger’s clothes,
trying to convince the town 
he was worthy of praise. 
But they did not believe— 
all failing to see the demons 
he bore like Bacchae,
save for my grandmother
who saw his demons and tears 
                   and said, Harry— 
taking her sewing kit
                   and the god’s name in vain 
and patching up his polyester,
her irises honeying his reflection 
until he could recognize himself again. 


                Lexie Slotterback




















I Wish I Could Take You 
[PC] [LB][PB]


to the brick that bore me, 
pushed me past clay and shale and drywall
into a bathroom whose steel faucet never ceases— 
It drips
         and drops
but rarely carries warmth.
That flows from my mother,
from her dreams of a home with a high ceiling
and a Christmas light display 
to rival that of E. 20th Street— 
far from Bethlehem,
but leaning towards its ear with whispered prayer,
         for a home where faucets never leak, 
         where the booms that echo on darkened streets
         are always just fireworks.
 
I could take you for a drive 
around the landmines that line our highways, 
through thoughts polluted
by the cloud factory smoke
that seeps into our lungs during the afternoon cortisol rush.
Potholes littered across road fragments 
drive even the agnostics to pray, 
         let this labyrinth of construction lead home
         and the mechanic be right about wide sidewalls preventing tears.
 
Mostly,
I wish we could go
just past the trafficked frenzy of the I-95 
to the park where children gawk at planes 
set to land on runways where every passenger is departing
         or wishing they were.
Yet the children see divine— 
like all planes lead to Bethlehem,
to the promise of seeing loved ones lost
to faucets that leaked and flooded them 
into the Susquehanna, 
         without prayer, 
         but still home. 


                
                Lexie Slotterback








































































wreath of violets
[PC] [LB][PB]


I.
when we didn’t understand what it meant to say I love you, you’d braid
violets into my curls. there was a patch of them in the woods behind[b]
the lake where we’d bike on summer nights helmets off hair spiraling
behind us. band-aid bruised knees and dirt under nails, you splayed me
in your lap, wild locks billowed out, and you built me a wreath of violets.
 
I always followed you down to the creek to splash around
barefoot bare skinned with nothing but the sound of the marsh,
my harmony to the melody of your laughter. you clung to
the covenants that fell from my lips as I fell into a drunken stupor
of love. love like the camellias blooming in my grandmother’s garden.
 
II.
when you first told me I love you my heart flipped in my fissured rib cage,
I said it back. you’d go on to love pale lattes and boys in volleyball uniforms.
you’d love cruises across the ocean and catching flights late into the night.
you’d love French baguettes, German trains, and other people. I’d think I
loved someone else until you whispered you still had my letters, etchings
of my love you–love you–love yous burnt into your childhood desk draw.[c]
 
I left your words suspended, but I sent you snapshots
of lavender bushes on my walk home. I returned clipped
photos of green carnations pinned to sweeping dresses
and finely tailored suits paired with your highest heels.
 
III.
I always find you in the language of flowers.
our last few years were spent passing portraits of calla
lilies and pansies. I’d’ve given my soul to hear your
voice, but your body sleeps in the land down under.
 
when your face appeared in front of a flag, ‎fuchsia violet bluebell,
I knew we’d fucked us up. I typed out two hundred ways I loved
you, but hesitation had me deleting the way I’d described your lips.
adults can mind their own damn heartbreak without bringing up
echoes buried in hollowed out trees where our names are etched.
I could try and give us a chance to finally let this go. to let you go.
 
IV.
the text you sent me as doomsday overtook Europe
let me know that I still love you. it let me know
that you might still love me. but you’re stuck down
in Sydney, floating out to sea and I’m standing
in the rain to watch rayo flicker across Quito
as mother nature weeps for what she has lost.
it’s not the right time for us. our time is dead.
 
when I said I wanted to marry you,
they told me that little girls didn’t grow up
to marry other little girls. now, I think
that little girls grow up to marry other little girls,
but maybe I don’t grow up to marry you.




                        Isabella De Palo Garcia Perez






















































the endling
[PC][PB]


to the last Poʻouli: no kau a kau
 
Poʻouli once roamed the north-eastern
slopes of Haleakalā and nested aloft
in the ʻōhiʻa lehua, a flowering evergreen
tree native to Hawaiʻi and her islands,
feasting on olapa berries and waxworms.
 
sounds of rain pittering along silversword
vegetation as the Pueo, the guide of ancestor
spirits, and hallowed, paramount honeycreepers
flitting above evergreens and invaders around the
crater, all ache for the loss of one of their own.
 
eleven weeks before the endling died, one half-blind
and lonely songbird found itself in a battle against
Papahānaumoku and Wākea, his earth mother and sky
father. humans, always trying to race eradication. that
night the heartwood wept for its beloved, far from home.
 
even those devoted hands, warm to the touch running
down soft, gentle feathers, couldn’t nurse him out
of extinction. time is a coup d’état: cruel and swift
colonization of the body as is the illness permeating
his bones, weak and anemic, atrophies beyond repair.
 
they don’t bury the body in volcanic soil, no return
to his ancestral homeland. rather, he remains pressed
in between sheets of plastic in the ice cold. shipped
to some distant mainland to be poked, prodded
until there is nothing left but the chill of death.
 
they never named him but his song resonates
like a melodious Kalani, cold winds reaching
upwards to the heavens residing above rainforests.
‘I’iwi and ‘Ākohekohe engage in a dance of grief
as the Pueo guides the little Poʻouli home forever.




                
                Isabella De Palo Garcia Perez






howling at the moon
[PC][PB]
 
in México, the coyotes howled all night long. even when the moon faded behind the dawn of a new day their cries called to me like a warning. I would lie awake to sit with the stars as the dogs curled close to my feet, clinging to the warmth of my fear as it burned against the chill of the desert stone tiles. Canela, cinnamon spice on her cacao coat, snarled at the door at 3am when a coyote wandered close enough to touch. bright white bone bared to the thin glass pane clinging to the window frame. the coyotes growled, la gringa mexicana…la chingada and I growled back, me lleva la chingada, I guess, Spanish cracking on my tongue like flakes of mazapán do. I should’ve known the coyotes would come for me when my dad’s attempts at a border crossing failed. the coyotes never led me home, just took me outside to howl at the moon over the riverside as dead women howled back. they led me to the bats, men dressed up in their daddy’s green coats, white hoods, and slacks like this is just another day on the job. the bats on the border tell me, speak English only. when we got off the plane in Atlanta, la Migra looked at me like I didn’t belong, like my blood wasn’t born on one coast and raised on another. head held high like my white mother taught me, I leaned forward towards the white man and his big gun to whisper, no estes chingando and turned like the coyotes aren’t on my heels. they aren’t, not really. just the wings of bats fluttering next to my ear.




                Isabella De Palo Garcia Perez






































the mines
after Paul Muldoon
[PC][PB]
 
we find the earth our forebears once called
home in Southeastern Michoacán, edging
the outskirts of la Ciudad de México.
when my brother kicks up crumbling
dirt and stardust shed by our bloodline,
light scatters across the sky and it seems
we’ve scratched a four-hundred-year-old-itch.
 
in the golden age of colonization, Zacatecas
was once one of the most successful mines
in all of the Spanish empire, producing silver
for hungry swine hell bent on bleeding us dry.
my blood bleeds different indigenous inchor
than what is found where my family ranch
is settled. such is the legacy of colonialism,
to be displaced from your homeland again
and again. we visit the Mina del Eden, or as
my ancestors could’ve called it, the mine
of dead marigolds. in México, I am still
mestiza, still mixed. I speak English to my
mother and whisper Spanish prayers at our
village church. I am the product of the empire.
 
in the mine, I stared longingly at slabs of ore,
gold dust, and gemstones gleaming six thousand
colors. what would it be like to touch, taste history
again? in the mine, my brothers ran ahead, still
small and young enough to forget. when I looked
down over the railing into the cavern of rock walls,
I swore I smelt blood. I knew the warm trickle
of iron tang on my tongue long before I knew
what it meant for things in this world to die.


                
                        Isabella De Palo Garcia Perez 










borderlandia
[PC] [PB]
 
the saguaros look like the old gods,
tilted, vibrant, foreboding. grasping
to the sun-streaked sky as if it holds
all of the answers of ancestry. cottontails
scuttle and bounce, hopping over agave,
away from snarling, snorting javelina. gods
still dwell in the etchings of the desert’s
paintbrushes and spiny, sanguine ocotillo.
 
there are gods you’ll see on blazing
summer sundays, when the sun is ripe
and honeyed, and the air smells rich,
like young wine that goes to your head.
there are gods you’ll see when the icy
night has covered the stretched horizon
in a midnight shroud, soft skin of stomach
and a flushed neck sprawl naked against
the judgement of the desert-soaked stars.
 
there are gods you’ll feel when the pain
tears prickly pear bits into your skin.
there are gods you’ll hear rattling like
snakes along sandstone formations,
calling out a warning before danger.
there are gods you’ll see many times
on your path, and there are gods you’ll
see only once, gods you’ll embrace with
open arms and those you’d rather forget.
 
there are gods that’ll slither into dreams,
oleander-laced, gnawing life from your
bones sucking water from your supple skin,
pulling hair from your head. you’ll wake up
gasping, snuffed out by dehydration and cave
fires. these are the gods you’ll taste like ash
under your tongue. these are the gods you’ll
see in the smoke, phantom apparitions. these
are the gods that you can’t escape and can’t
escape you. gods you’ll see in the mirror.
 
don’t look at them too long.
                                                Isabella De Palo Garcia Perez






i found god
[PC][PB]


retching red spirals[d]
in a honky tonk bar
silk and soot pouring out 
into the porcelain below, Her
emesis coating the hyacinth tumbles
that crown Her countenance 
                   hold my hair back, She asks
so i wrap my fist around Her inflorescence
in awe of the way She spits
                   why did he call? She asks
but i have no answer, distracted 
by the crowd call for the “Tush Push” 
                   until the stench of Her grenadine gag 
                   putrefies the back of my throat
and i am brought back to a woman
crying over man 
i tell Her about how when i was little
i would lie awake, terrified by sounds 
of creaking and cracking 
from stairs and attic beams
so my parents told me, 
a house makes noise as it settles
and maybe that’s why he’s calling 
but She can’t hear me 
over the sound of the crowd
line dancing just outside the door 
                   the god flushes
whispers, thanks
and rejoins the congregation.




        Lexie Slotterback






lone star
[PC][PB]


dryness hangs itself on the aging wood of
dusty ghost town bars. I left you feverish, 
confused and writhing in the dark, 
two rusting nails glistening above the heartless texan bedpost. 


what is it 
if not sex
that brings this arid wasteland fertility?




        Grace McPhee






















































dublin
[PC][PB]


i rolled myself out as if I was a Persian carpet
hoping to be tread on by filthy shoes


i am jealous of the grip you have on Kant
because i know you would never lay a hand on me,
not even if i wanted it; not even if i asked you to. 


if i hung off the edge of a cliff, gauzy and soaked wet with rain
i would ask you to waltz on my knuckles;
i would beg you please, to give me my pain
and make it so that i never recover from 
having seen you in dublin proper, 
your neck craned; a bird between my teeth




                Grace McPhee
________________


THISBE
[PC]


I know you love the security
of brick walls, but to survive
under siege one has to give up
on the world.


Even if our hearts belong
to one another, there is only
so much that can be whispered
through cracks.


Passions inevitably cool
when tender lips are met
with stone, flesh fortified
by the comfort of control.


You and I cannot
build a life from words.


There has to be more
than nods and glances,
our future fading
with each pressing moment.


Come let me hold you
— once and for all.
________________


Untitled[e]


  

________________


A Pleasure You Suffer, An Ailment You Enjoy
[PC]


There[f] it was. A triple-layer, fudgy, darker-than-Hell but sweeter than Heaven, sprinkle-coated, whipped-cream topped slice of chocolate cheesecake. It was an explosion in my mouth. Overwhelmingly rich, a tad bit chewy, ultra-moist. The smears of chocolate ganache were tire tracks on the edges of my lips, and my mom beamed at me from across the table, in awe of the fact that she had created a creature so joyful and so incredibly messy.


[g]
The Cheesecake Factory was my mom and my favorite place to go after the mall crawl through the purse section of Macy’s and the garish kaleidoscope of Justice, every pre-teen girl’s favorite store. While flipping through the comically large menu, I would sneak glances at the teenage girls eating with their friends, weaponized with flip phones and laughs that completely mesmerized me. I’d ask, “Can I come here by myself with my friends when I’m older?” She’d grin between bites of her flatbread, and in a language we both understood but never needed to verbalize, I knew she was saying yes. I’d giggle and steal glances at the table of teens, my mind filled with the made-up conversations I would one day have with my older, wiser, cooler, didn’t-need-their-mom-to-drive-them-places, friends. My boyfriend would be handsome and tall. The gossip would be juicy and hot. I’d wear crop tops and swim in bikinis and my mom would let me stay out until the street lamps turned on. As I would sink deeper into the fantasy, my mother’s voice, a life preserver in my sea of chocolate cheesecake daydreams, would pull me back to the shore of reality. She’d cock her head at me, not knowing where my mind had run off to, but I think she had her suspicions. With a honey touch, she’d reach across and sigh as she wiped the smears from my face, giving me a look I couldn’t quite read. Was she happy? Sad? Something in between? Her protective gaze washed over me, like she was scared I could disappear right before her very eyes, but they still sparkled like she had never had the pleasure of looking at something so lovely.


I later learned the word for such looks. Saudade. /souˈdädə/. A word that has no direct English translation. A word that comes from the same soil as my mother, a Portuguese term, one that holds many definitions. When Google’d, “a feeling of longing, melancholy, or nostalgia” will light up your screen. Elucidated in an NPR article, it is “a melancholy nostalgia for something that perhaps has not even happened.” Perhaps more poignantly, as the Portuguese writer Manuel De Melo phrases, “a pleasure you suffer, an ailment you enjoy.”


Suddenly, there’s a word to describe how I felt one night in December. When my friends and I took a chance on a hidden café in the city. My eyes floated around, landing on each of their faces as we sat at the dingy circle table in the corner, and all I saw were smiles. Full, teethy, cheek hurting, dimple popping smiles. The waitress came over and stared at us for a minute, like we were portraits in a gallery, and she was mystified by the fact she could look upon such art for free. Maybe we were portraits that night, art meant to be relished in and admired. A messy Monet of girls, giggling, sharing secrets, simply basking in the glow of being young and beautiful, and most importantly, fully alive. But underneath, in a gallery not for public viewing, I couldn’t help but think about how this moment was fleeting. It came, and it would go. No matter how many times I came to the hole in the wall café, I could never replicate the feeling of pure bliss I had in that very moment. I would grow older, I would move on, I would find new cafes with new people. It was an ailment, the thought of never being able to return to this sparkle of youth with the people I loved, in a place that seemed to love me. But God, I enjoyed it.


Saudade was the word for the feeling I had in the back seat of my Lyft, on the way home from a date that ended in a warm kiss on a cold street corner. My face still flushed from another’s touch, my chariot driven up to the curb. It was past midnight but I hadn’t lost a glass slipper, and the beat up white Subaru had not yet turned into a pumpkin. Proof my fairytale of a night had not yet ended. The driver was older. He was quiet, I was quiet, both decompressing from a late Sunday night spent in Boston. The throwback radio station was on. Soft, ambient, but enough to fill the space our silence left in the car as we sped down the tunnels and out into the suburbs of the city. As a song I don’t remember ended, Alicia Keys’ “If I Ain’t Got You” came on over the airwaves. The driver reached out his right hand, wrinkled from age and experience, and turned the volume knob up. The music floated throughout the small space of the Subaru, and giving into the urge I got whenever I heard a song I knew, I sang. Softly, my voice wafted from the black leather back seat, as I sang myself a lullaby to end the night. The chorus hit and suddenly, my voice was not the only one filing the car. My driver belted out each word, felt each word, as if he was no longer a Lyft driver on a Sunday night, but Alicia Keys herself. It was a duet, a spontaneous harmony with a stranger. A moment I’ve only assumed happens in movies, a moment that made me want to freeze time and let myself sit in the back of this Lyft forever on the way to nowhere. The song ended, and we both smiled. I couldn’t see it behind the mask, but I knew we did. “What a song,” I said softly. He released a sigh, one that sounded like he had been holding it in for a million years, “That came on at the perfect moment don’t you think?” And I did. I don’t know if I’ll ever get the feeling I had in that car back. A perfect moment with a perfect stranger. But every time I think of it, my heart sings saudade, just like my driver did on that chilly midnight carriage ride home.


It’s a word to describe the feeling I had on my grandma’s 87th birthday—when the family was gathered and the cake was cut, the laughs were loud and the smiles were wide. My cousins, all off living grown and adult lives, doing grown and adult things, were back home, in the comfort of the house they grew up in, with the people they grew up with. My aunts and uncles, looking slightly grayer than the last time I had seen them, but their faces were still glowing golden and their embrace was just as warm. My Grandma, shimmering with the glimmer in her eye that comes from being another year older and wiser, telling stories about the last time the whole family was together, highlighting the rarity it was, that we would all be in the same room at the same time. And then, among the delight and joy of another trip around the sun, I couldn’t help but wonder how many more she’d have. How many more forehead kisses would my grandma be able to plant on my growing head? How many more summers would be spent at her house? All the windows open to let the salty air waft in from the ocean just yards away, three fans on in the living room, pointed directly at my grandma and I as we watched Golden Girls reruns and finished seasons of Downton Abbey and whatever else was on PBS. How many more ice coffees would be made in her kitchen to help us cool off? Always Dunkins, always decaf, always a splash of almond milk. When does always become never? At what point would my family be together again, underneath the same roof instead of just the same sky, and would it be under the same gleeful circumstances, or something much grimmer? Again, saudade.


A word for the moments before my father gets on a plane, again and again, and flies halfway across the world. His United States Army uniform dangling on a coat hanger placed on the doorframe of my parent’s bedroom, a constant reminder for days that, while he cooked me breakfast on the weekends and came to every softball game I had, he’d soon be gone. 
[h]
For that now, a now full of saudade, he was in the bleachers. His hands clasped in concentration, watching my every move at the plate. As though he could feel the shift of my weight from my front to back foot, as the pitcher began her wind up. Like he could feel every clench of my fingers as they gripped the bat he had taped for me the weekend before. We were one body, one soul, and when my bat would connect with the neon yellow ball and it would go soaring off, fast enough to leave contrails in its wake, it was like my dad saw his heart out there on the field, running around the bases. As I rounded each dirt covered bag on the field, I could hear his shouts, spurring me on, lighting a fire in my feet, pushing me forward and faster. I’d glance over to the bleachers to see him standing up, invading all boundaries of personal space with the other parents he shared the bench with, clapping and screaming. The excitement of seeing his pride and joy running around a diamond doing the thing she loved, coursing through his body. I’d hug him tightly after the game, my arms wrapped around his waist and my head buried in the spot in his chest that felt custom made for me.  Bliss. Yet, in that very same moment, I was reminded that he wouldn’t be at the next game, the next sticky Saturday in the middle of July. He wouldn’t be sitting in his designated spot in the rusty bleachers of the ballpark. I was reminded that the country I had to share him with would rip him from my arms, off to fight in a war I didn’t quite understand against enemies I couldn’t see. He’d be left with a hole in his chest, forced to leave his heart stateside, running around the bases of the softball diamond without its biggest fan and greatest protector. Saudade.


Saudade is love. Saudade is loss. Saudade is the beautiful mess you get when love and loss combine. Even as I write, I feel these memories slipping. Slowly, with the same fragility of a dream when you first wake up. I’m scared one day I won’t fully remember their beauty. I won’t see the sparkle when I close my eyes, and the voices that ring in my head when I play them back will get softer, until they’re no longer audible. I find saudade in that. Saudade. A combination that reminds us that we are human. That we are here. That we feel.
________________


A Golden Key
[PC]


As[i][j] she lies on the warm sidewalk, squinting into skies covered with smog and criss-crossed with power lines, her mind wanders to her third grandpa.
The thought couldn’t be more out of place. Here, “Fantastic Baby” blares in the background while she breathes in car exhaust fumes from Porsches driven by people who don’t know the meaning of money. There, his tattered shorts flapped around his legs, gently outlining his gangly frame as he breathed in the heavy, dense smoke from the wood stove in rural Sichuan, surrounded by the click-click sounds of motor scooters bouncing their way down poorly paved roads. Nevertheless, she thinks of him.
She thinks about his hunched-over shoulders, his tank top sticking to his sweat-stained back in the claustrophobic room where you didn’t even have space to spread out your arms, the room without air conditioning even in the 21st century, where he and his wife lived for the better part of their lives. She thinks of the small color TV that crackled with the morning, midday, and evening news, blasting the manufactured smiles and robotic voices of anchors so artificial that they could have come out of a factory, endlessly delivering what she scoffed at as bullshit communist propaganda. She thinks about how he sat on his short stool, swatting at flies and mosquitoes that had somehow made their way through the netting with the handle of his paper fan, smoking cigarettes. The cheapest cigarettes that you can get. The ones that choked you out no matter how long you had been smoking. Only ten-yuan a pack. How old was he then? 40? 50? 60?
Third grandpa is a rather odd appellation. Even other Chinese kids furrow their brows at the weird expression, much less the white kids she hangs out with 9 months out of the year. They don’t really understand who he was, what he means. Even she herself isn’t sure of his place in her genealogy. A great-grandfather? A great-uncle? An uncle? No matter how many times her relatives tried to explain the wide and intricate family tree, she never figured it out. Third grandpa was older, for some inexplicable reason, than her second grandpa. But fifth grandpa is younger than fourth grandpa. Somewhere in the line, someone got married too soon and had babies too early, and someone else got married too late and had babies too late. So now she just sits here, confused about third grandpa and how his number fits into the rest. The odd one out. The disruptor.
Not far away, her friends clamor over some petty argument about a girl or a malicious rumor. All drunk, their fingertips stained with cigarette ashes and god knows what drugs, they bicker over the most inconsequential things as if they were the most important things in the world. One of them is heaving into the planted shrubs, doing his part to maintaining the greenery in the city. His limited-edition Givenchy T-shirt that he paid triple retail value for has vomit trickling down the tail end of the “Y”, smearing the logo in a mess of brown and green. Not much of a loss, she smirks.
The night started just like any other night of rebellious debauchery, a group of not-quite-children-anymore-but-not-adults trying their hand at imagined maturity. On vacation from their schools on the other side of the world, they eagerly jumped into the lax rules and abundant entertainment of a homeland they barely knew. They began at the bars, slyly masquerading as older, more confident, more sophisticated versions of themselves. In reality, the owners couldn’t care less how old they were. In this place without a rule of law, even if they were just infants, as long as they kept a steady stream of red paper Maos coming, copious amounts of alcohol would be delivered into their waiting mouths. They just preferred to think that their cunning played a part in the scheme. 
As the alcohol drained down throats, places changed and faces blurred. Her memory blurred. Voices. Music. Lights. The karaoke bar. Then the nightclubs. And now she lies here, outside the nightclubs, next to scantily dressed partygoers squeezing in-and-out among tough-faced bouncers, thinking about third grandpa. 
Her mother always visited him when she went back to the dingy fields and dirt roads of her childhood. Back to chickens crossing the street and people on bicycles waking up the entire neighborhood by blasting the world’s most tacky music through cheap speakers as they sped down the street. Where half the older people are still illiterate and the other half barely literate. Where hope withered to die.
She was always dragged along, not quite understanding the despondency, the air of resignation. She would gingerly step around the dirt, desperately looking for the slightest bit of concrete, and hide in air-conditioned cars, complaining when mosquitoes invaded the cheap netting in the rickety houses that she was warmly welcomed into. She would silently will herself away from this place, burying her face in her phone to try to make the time go by faster, ducking from relatives who were either scared or jealous of her, prying with questions and curiosity in a dialect she could barely understand, trying to share with her a heritage she didn’t know. 
Third grandpa was the exception.
Third grandpa liked to read. He was interested in current affairs instead of trashy mind-numbing soap operas. He wouldn’t sit around and gossip about the neighbor’s daughter who got knocked up or whose son made some money out in the city or who owed thousands and thousands of yuan in gambling debt. No, third grandpa always had a quiet air about him, a dignified nobility. He didn’t make her feel as uncomfortable as the other relatives did. He did not have the stink of the impoverished about him. She could tell that somewhere, beyond his bare apartment, beyond the clamor of the mahjong parlor next door and the drunkards wandering the streets, third grandpa once had a dream.
Her family isn’t one to share old stories. Her mother escaped from this place that  perpetually smells of animal shit, with its tiny stores trying to pass off god-knows-what as beef and wrinkled men and women with leather-like skin haggling over mere cents. She escaped a sepia-toned, dust-filled land to high-rises and Chanel scarves. She escaped to organic grocery stores and cappuccinos with friends and a blue-covered passport rather than red. She escaped to talking about whose kid got into Harvard rather than which duck fell into the latrine trenches. She never wanted to come back.
But her mother always comes back. She has to fulfill her filial piety, her gratitude to her elders. She has to come back and pretend like she likes this place and that she doesn’t feel guilty for leaving. She is forced to face her beginnings, the baseness of her relatives who accosts her for money to buy booze in the middle of the street. Her mother hates them, so stories are rare.
But third grandpa was the exception.
Her mother would tell her bits and pieces. Third grandpa was smart. Third grandpa was once a scholar. Third grandpa had a bright future. Third grandpa even knew how to read, and read well. Third grandpa got into university. Third grandpa had a dream. Then, the Cultural Revolution came.
The Cultural Revolution killed third grandpa, her mother said. Took a young man in his prime and stifled his light, put out the flame, cut the engine. It tried to convince him that knowledge was evil, rightist and revisionist, poison to his mind. It told him that The Little Red Book was the only book he needed, the only book he should want. The Cultural Revolution tried to convince third grandpa that he did not need a dream, that Mao was the only dream. He resisted.
But third grandpa wasn’t the exception.
How could one man resist a revolution? Like many, he had to bow before the demands of his country. It demanded him to stop thinking, to stop learning, to stop questioning. It demanded that he leave university and never come back, to return to the farm and stay there, to become a beast. There, third grandpa’s road ended.
The revolution came and went. It was too late for third grandpa, but he had hope. A girl in the family, not his child but like him, inquisitive, ready to read, eager to learn. A girl propitiously coming of age when teachers were allowed back to their posts, when universities began entrance examinations again, when student voices again filled classrooms and halls. She was different. The first child in the family to show an interest in third grandpa’s dream. She became third grandpa’s hope.
When her parents didn’t have the money to pay the 100 yuan tuition for school, almost two month’s salary, third grandpa stuffed money into her pocket from his own and told her to eat better and study well. He would cover for her when she was summoned to dig out the potatoes or tend to the pigs with her younger brother, who ended up never even graduating from elementary school. He would lovingly hand her a treasured book from his small private library and urged her to read, to fill her mind. He introduced her to a world of possibility. Third grandpa would tell her his dream, and encourage her to find her own, to leave this place when he never could. 
And the little girl did. University. Then, in a time of opportunity, the little girl, who wasn’t a little girl anymore, who had so much courage, gave notice at her iron rice bowl job without telling any of her family and packed herself into a train headed for somewhere new, somewhere she had only heard of, a small fishing village that was tapped to become the next new metropolis on the coast. “The world is big, and I want to go see it,” her resignation letter read.
A fledgling country, a fledgling city, a fledgling adult harboring ancient dreams. The tide of history pushed her along, pushed the city along. A wounded country working twice as hard to make up for past mistakes. The small fishing village blossomed. So did she. 
She started as a secretary in a factory. To seem sophisticated, the foreman asked if she knew how to type. She lied and said yes. To seem international, the foreman asked her if she knew how to read English. She lied and said yes. Everything worked out perfectly–the foreman didn’t need a typist or a translator.
The foreman turned out to be a brilliant yet silly man. One day, she pitied him and gave him an apple when he forgot his lunch. Because he was silly, the foreman assumed she was in love with him, and as a courtesy he decided to fall in love with her. She was, in fact, not in love with him, but since he decided to fall in love with her, she did him the courtesy of falling in love with him. Soon, they shared a home and shared their dreams.
The beginning was hard. Small rented rooms smelling like musty clothes and cigarettes. Two-yuan bowls of noodles slurped hastily by the roadside while breathing in the dust and exhaust from cars driving by. Talks about the future, big visions, even their own company. The squalor of their past seemed temporary. In this city of opportunity, anything could happen. They will make it happen.
It started in that tiny rented room. A couple of young adults from all over the country, coming to the new city and united by a common dream. Knocking on doors, handing out flyers, renting a tiny office in a big building so they have an address to put on a business card. What could they sell? What could they have that people might want? The former foreman is luckily a brilliant man for all his silliness. He had something so rare that China hadn’t seen in two decades. Something that people wanted. A Ph.D. The first of the Ph.D.s to reemerge after their near extinction in the Cultural Revolution. Soon, they got their first customer. Soon after, she fulfilled her dream.
She lived in big houses by the ocean, pointing at each other across the Pacific thousands of miles away like beacons of her accomplishment. She had more books than she could possibly read. She tasted French wine and Spanish meats. She traveled on land, in the water, in the air. She talked about the economy and psychology and philosophy. She didn’t have to work because she had so much money, money that people from home could not even begin to dream of. Her hands were never again going to turn raw from toiling in the field, never again going to be covered in soot while cleaning the stove, never again going to get splattered by slop while feeding the pigs. Her hands were now reserved for expensive hand creams and delicate manicures, for leather handbags and flower arranging. Third grandpa’s little girl saw sights that third grandpa never could see. She took his dream and realized it. And then, third grandpa’s little girl had her own little girl.
That little girl is now lying on the sidewalk, trying her hand at debauchery. In her prime but already decaying. This little girl was born with a golden key in her mouth, one forged from the blood and sweat of her ancestors, but the little girl didn’t know that when she was born. She was born with hopes and dreams from generations back, hopes and dreams that were already fulfilled, with which she doesn’t know what to do. She enjoys their spoils but cannot find her own dream. Born with expectations of excellence, she soon realized that this golden key came with consequences. The little girl who is now drunk and sad and hopeless. The pressure was crushing.
A loud shout from her friends brings her attention back. Two of the guys are having a drunken fist fight over a girlfriend who kept her options open. The others have started bickering in a mixture of English and Mandarin, filled with expletives, over differing opinions on how to end this night of depravity. Givenchy shirt is still vomiting. She is no better than they are, these not-quite-children-anymore-but-not-adults, these Chens, Lis, Wangs, all of whose fathers’ names are on some financial magazine Best-Of list, whose mothers do nothing but drink too much red wine and play cards, all living in houses with marble floors and high ceilings, who cheat on examinations and bribe their way out of discipline, who throw money at the ground, in the water, and in the air and scoff at the idea of poverty.
Vanity has become a habit. She sits around casually mentioning luxurious vacations and expensive purchases. She flashes her blue-covered passport at jealous onlookers, not an immigrant from paucity but a golden ticket. She poses for cameras, plastering a smile on her face to show the world just how happy she is. She indulges herself on nights like these, hiding her misery under a vestige of vice. She is just like her friends, and she hates it.
In rural towns throughout the country, from the backs of crushed dreams rose new dreams and new generations who passed on those dreams. She was given a dream that she didn’t want, but she enjoys the spoils. They are all enjoying the spoils from old dreams. They have to pay for it, somehow.
They have never known hunger or thirst, never felt their backs aching from bending over rice paddies, never felt their dreams drowned in a sea of red, in a continuous chant of “Stand up! Those who are unwilling to become slaves!” But now, they throw up all over this city of dreams. Their sweat, their blood, their vomit littering the concrete. Their emptiness exposed by the endless bright city lights, haunted by dreams.
She doesn’t have any dreams. None of them have any. They are the products of dreams, but they were also crushed by the same dreams. Products of parents who saw their children as investments instead of people. Parents too preoccupied with fulfilling their elders’ dreams to foster their own children’s dreams. Where had these dreams gone off course? What started out humble has now transformed into a gargantuan monster. The children inherited dreams that have just inflated and inflated. What started as a simple wish has become an unimaginable burden. 
Given all the resources in the world to succeed, the children floundered. They drown in this sea of being too loved. The legacy they were born to carry but never wanted paid for in cold, hard cash. Parents who try so hard to give their kids anything they could ever want, to provide a life that they never had. But money isn’t enough. Material attention did not come with affection. Parents who are too busy striving for more and more to properly love their children. Everything the children have comes with the condition of success. Knowing the weight of dreams, they are so afraid of failing they won’t even hazard to find their own.
These not-quite-children-anymore-but-not-adults have all grown up too soon. They act just like the parents they proclaim to hate. Hypocrites raising younger hypocrites. All ingrates, but also all unfairly burdened with a responsibility they never asked to carry.
The only solace they can find is to tell themselves that they don’t care. Their teenaged-rebellion is so feeble against the magnitude of these dreams. All they can do is to drink themselves to death.
If they don’t care, they don’t need to feel guilt when facing their ancestors. They don’t need to panic at every mistake, don’t need to worry about carrying a legacy. They don’t need to worry about pleasing their parents’ endless goals, don’t need to look at everything they have, everything they own, with a feeling of fraud. They won’t need to wonder if they really deserve all this, won’t need to think of what they need to pay back for all this privilege that was just handed to them. That’s why they don’t care. That’s why she doesn’t care. She can’t care.
She thinks of third grandpa looking at her with pride. Her certificates, acceptance letters, even participation awards lined his sparse walls, right next to her mother’s accolades. Third grandpa, trying to talk to her, trying to reach out to the product of his dreams, but only managing a feeble “Have you had dinner?” She thinks of him pulling out the long unused Mandarin rather than his native Sichuanese that she could still only barely understand with his thick accent, asking how school is going, but not understanding anything that she could talk about. How does she explain prom, boyfriends, Harkness tables? How can she explain the petty complaints of dining hall food and lack of snow days to a man who had nothing? Who had everything stripped away from him? Only two generations apart, but two whole worlds apart. Third grandpa, so suffocating with love, with hope. She just wanted to shrink from his gaze. She can’t care. 
But with the help of the alcohol and the noise, she can’t stop thinking of that sparse room, of his wrinkled skin and calloused fingers. Look at how she’s bastardized his dream. This isn’t what third grandpa had wanted. But she doesn’t know how to fix it. It is all too overwhelming. Did third grandpa know that she is a disappointment?
         She’ll never know. Third grandpa is now a pile of ash. Lung cancer. A pile of ash like his dreams. He was the pile of ash from her cigarette, the most expensive kind, soft Chunghwas sold at 100 yuan a pack, the smoke of China. Your dream can’t turn into ash if you never had a dream. She closes her eyes and becomes a pile of ash.
________________


waiting rooms and plastic couches
[PC][PB]


i said to them, i said
“i am alone. i am all alone”
they listened, and they heard my testimony,
then they sent me on my way with a bouquet of lavender
and a pack of cigarettes. 
i was enraged
colicky
like an infant unfed.
but i was smitten with fury
ardent
decidedly a girl in love with pretense
and fine diction, 
with a penchant for dirty men
and rooms that reek 
of 
stale time
and self-pity.
________________


A Middle Class Poem
[PC] [DU]


I long to loaf.
No, even less.
I want to do nothing,
Except that isn’t exactly true,
I want to consume 
Hours of media 
Defy the calls for output.


I am all zeit and no geist 
I am a vast image hatched out of spiritus mundi,
A shape with baby bird body and  hapless human head.
Greasy, amniotic, in need of a shit, 
Slouching along the now deep-worn ruts 
From A to B. Toward the next feed.


The pen, I read, is mightier than the sword.
There. I’ve passed on what little I know.
Go and set the world on fire.
I find I have little use for either tool. 
Each is but an egg tooth,
And I care little to meet that part of me which 
Cannot make itself known
Within the confines of my shell.


That head. For all the chemistry transpiring within,
It struggles to understand much about the world without.
Color as a concept, for instance. 
Political particles displaying wavelike qualities.
The reality of walls, the implications for 
The ecosystems they trap, and their 
Holding up the roof
On which I, and a nation 
Of do-nothings have trod since 
Before I can remember. 


A child asked it once, my head, that is,
“What is wind?” and it told the kid that wind -- 
No matter what sound it makes, 
Whether it whips 
Through window drapes, sings 
Through a saxophone, or
Lub-dubs, soft and quick 
From an ultrasound, straight from a tiny heart, 
That wind is but a function of heat. 
That given the common thermal cradle, 
One wind might as well be the next.


The body, and the more 
Bodily bits of the head, 
Long to exercise more fully the right 
Of having no troubles in the least.
To be troubled with no troubles needing troubling over at all.
To bathe in the lethe and lose little of any importance. 
To forget the word,
Bethlehem, and slouch instead from bed, to table, to church, to couch,
To toilet, to bed with little desire to be born.


By now, we realize that we are chaff, though not
In the common sense of the metaphor.
We cling close enough to the fruit 
For which the species was cultivated
to be shorn likewise from the field by
the combine of Providence, 
Whisked away with newfound freedom,
The memory of common soil purged. 
We think little of the stalks and stems,
and feel even less.
________________


Pine Nuts
[PC] [DU]


I did not know 
Where pine nuts
Were grown
Until I read 
That some thirty Afghan pine nut farmers
Were consumed, 
Turned to human ash 
Or fine red mist,
Depending on whether it was 
The fireball 
Or the white-hot shrapnel 
Of the bomb sent
From the drone piloted
By the airman or airwoman
Who was sent to training
To learn to detect 
Potential pine nut farmers,
Discern
The good
Pine nut farmers
From the bad
And direct the drone
Accordingly.


I do not know
If these pine nut farmers
Were good or bad,
But I suspect, 
There will be a new batch soon 
Of hapless pine nut farmers to report on, 
In Syria, Iraq, Palestine,
Or perhaps in Nigeria,
In Yemen, or in Iran, 
In bloodied Crimean snowbanks, 
drowned below decks in the South China Sea.


As it happens, I heard just Monday,
The Turks have received
The Presidential O.K. 
To make pine nut farmers
Out of every Kurd 
Within twenty miles 
Of the border.


I do not know 
If pine nuts grow 
In Kurdistan or those other places.
You’ll know soon enough.
________________


Bonhomme
[PC] [DU]


There are two reasons you might not see Bonhomme before you find yourself in it. 
The first is this. Should you find yourself walking alone on a path beset on both sides by deep, black forest in the night, you will no doubt feel inclined to look up and cling to the stars strolling across the narrow channel of sky between the dark tops of pines, rather than peer too intently into the dark in any direction. This is because, in walking such a path, to peer ahead of oneself is to face that which has abandoned civilization to walk the road at night, or worse, that which has never known it at all. To look behind oneself is to give credence to nightmare. And to gaze into the wood is to understand death as a lateral shift. 
The second reason is that a new century has turned, the city’s grid has failed, and the strange fog dispersed by the city’s electric light and HVAC fans has settled again on the easy streets of Bonhomme. 
Such was the case when I reached the city. Then, as ever, the people of Bonhomme did as all city-dwellers must when given a chance to be someone else for a night, and flowed out into the street. I flowed with them through the descending mist -- though part of me knew the sin of it. Thus I committed two sins, I am ashamed to tell you, the sin of ignorance in flowing, and the sin of cowardly indiscipline -- ignoring the divorce of mind from body. As we moved through the streets, the night made all forget the light, and the mist made many forget the names of their mothers and fathers. Some rolled the letters of their own names about in their mouths like marbles. Unable to swallow them for fear of choking, they spit them out on those who dared not spit back, as well as those still peering skyward. 
When power was restored in the early morning, the good people of Bonhomme remembered themselves, troubled but little by a haze lingering at the edge of memory. 
________________


A Grand Deconstruction
[PC] [DU]


“This goodly frame, the earth, seems to me a sterile promontory, this most excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how express and admirable! in action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me, what is this quintessence of dust?”
― William Shakespeare, Hamlet


I thought that a building so grand would have a great boom to accompany its toppling, and yet, from this distance, it’s little more than a resounding grumble. The library had once been the center of town and had stood tall even when surrounding buildings crumbled. Today, however, the town decided to put it out of its misery. Like all buildings in town, it had been decaying for as long as I remember. The books inside, the only ones left to us, molder quietly on the shelves and the stacks seemed to grow dust no matter how vigorously one cleaned. The interior is sound, though, and so people flock there to pretend that nothing is falling apart. We used to go to museums to gaze at art in order to better understand the world, but now we glean hope from support beams. Even the strong and mundane crumble eventually, I suppose.
        Our gardens are wilting, our crops failing, and everywhere mold creeps. Grey seeps into buildings, through shoes, and into animals. Strays in the streets and alleyways collapse, their ears and eyes full of mold and despair. The Rot, as we called it, is insatiable.
        I’m against destroying the library. It’s finally succumbing, but it had life left in it still. I was outvoted, though, and was shit at arguing. The mayor, useless in most affairs, is very good at arguing. When argued enough, the most absurd option can become the ideal and so when the mayor said we shouldn’t bother with the books, no one else questioned him and the books were to be left to fester with the rubble. I could hardly believe it and, while I couldn’t be there, I assumed that others would sneak away with what they could.
        I’m sad to be missing the destruction ceremony, as are my companions, but it couldn’t be helped. We pause on our trek, nearly to the crest of the hill and out of the valley, to watch the great dome collapse and the resulting dust cloud surge out and engulf the crowd. From this distance I can pretend to see my roof.
        “I wonder how many books they saved,” I say, turning back the way we are headed and leading the other two forward.
        “None. Nobody reads anymore. ‘Cept you,” says Moore, a small woman of perpetual pessimism and condensed rage. She clenches her fists, holds it, and then relaxes them when anyone speaks.
        “Maybe the Bible. I heard somebody mention something about Bibles,” replies Harrison before bowing to tie his boot laces again. He refuses to double knot them, claiming they look silly, and so stops every hour to fix them, forcing the party to halt.
        “I don’t even read the Bible,” I say. It’s true. No one reads anymore. No one writes for pleasure, either, and so I’m the black sheep in town for keeping a journal. The young are taught to read, of course, but it’s done out of generational habit and necessity rather than pride or curiosity. “Used to, though.”
Moore kicks Harrison in the backside to get him moving again and off we go deeper into the woods.


        It’s not like we had never been in the woods before, because we have, but after days of travel in an ocean of trees, they stop looking like trees altogether. The deeper we go, the wider the trunks become and the thicker the canopy overhead until, on the fourth day, the sky stops being the sky. Branches overlap until only sickly green light filters through the leaves and hardly makes it to the ground.
        The forest floor becomes wilder too. Gnarly pool roots that don’t match the trees sprout up, making the path uneven and treacherous. Shoots and fungus eat up the sides of tree trunks; strange insects buzz from our shoulders to the branches and back, as if waiting for something; and the hum of the forest became incessant. Nothing at home is truly silent, but engulfed as we are and surrounded by teeming life it seems that every prickle and leaf is singing a joint song meant to deafen us. Moore appears unfazed, though she picked up a gnarled, fallen branch yesterday and is using it as a walking stick. Harrison, agitated as ever, just swats at the insects that seem to like him best. He pouts and stomps his feet, but is otherwise merry and hums to himself. When he becomes especially tuneless, Moore clenches her fists.
        It’s growing dark and Harrison’s boot becomes untied again so we stop for the day. It’s growing colder at night. It shouldn’t be, and doesn’t at home, but home is just a small grey valley miles away from us now. We rush to set up our camp and light a fire.
        Nothing is grey about the woods, I’d like to note, and at night things that should not glow begin to. The strange fungi, the leaves overhead, and even a few bugs, though the bugs were less out of the ordinary. The bugs would be a comforting commonplace if not for their incongruously large size. Just beyond our sight, twigs snap and small shapes scurry in the shadows. The warm orange of the fire chases away the more alien colors, but beyond our meagre light stretches the rest of the forest, now flooded with alien hues.
        For the first time since our mission began, I feel afraid. The mayor had asked, none to politely and with no je ne sais quoi of authority, for volunteers to find the other last settlement. It had been decades, he had said, since we had communed with our sister village and that, perhaps, they were faring better against The Rot. He hadn’t said that we needed help, but we all saw that we did. No one had volunteered. And then I raised my hand to ask about the library, for he had delivered the news of its imminent destruction a week prior, and was volunteered by the mayor. He then volunteered Moore, our best hunter, and Harrison, the least useful farmer.
        Once the three of us were volunteered, our friends and neighbors were much more supportive of our endeavour. Surely, our sister village thought us dead or worse, they told me. The butcher told me that it was great that I was going since I could practically bring our library  to them if they required it. I told him they may have a library and therefore would have no need of me, but the butcher only laughed. He had voted we destroy the library. He gave us all his salted meat rations the morning of our departure.
Our journey had, thus far, been less than epic, but I have a feeling it will not remain dull for much longer. Pulling out my journal, I begin to write it all down. To document our journey, yes, but also to write out every anxiety I feel to better ignore it. Sleep does not come easy with so much light and so much humming.
        I have to keep it together. This isn’t fair, but neither is The Rot, and this is the way that life is. I have to keep it together.




        Beastly is not the right word for the creature Moore shot. “Beast” doesn’t give the forest enough credit for creating such a masterfully awful thing. Picture the Mona Lisa and all her grandeur and then picture her half dead, her smile gone: she’s still the Mona Lisa, only now she’s gross. It’s like that.
        “Disgusting,” says Moore.
        “You don’t know that,” I huff.
        “I know it,” says Harrison, raising his hand.
        “Think it’s dead?” Moore asks and kicks it. Its tongue lolls out, all two feet of it, and lands with a slap in the undergrowth. It’s a mountainous bear-like thing. It resembles a ghoulish child’s drawing with it’s hulking forelegs, diminutive hindquarters, raging maw, and blue fur. If it had been alive, and non-murderous, I would have liked to see it in all its majesty. As it stood in reality, however, I’m relieved to find it dead.
        “Lick it and find out,” I tell Moore, and turned to survey the rest of the clearing. It isn’t naturally made since the cramped trees and thick undergrowth remain elsewhere, but enough time had obviously passed that it is no longer a perfect circle. The forest is rolling back inch by inch to reclaim the space. It had never relinquished the sky and even here great branches intertwine overhead. In the very center is a large pile of rotting wood and stone, perhaps once a shelter, and paths where the grass had been worn down spread out from one side. The sad remnants of a garden sits nearby and Harrison examines it closely and remarks on the technique used. The crops were long dead, but not by mold.
        “They tried to use trellises,” he says, “Maybe for peas. Maybe yams.”
        “Yams grow in dirt,” I call over to him, puzzled.
        “So do peas,” he says and wanders over to the shelter.
        Harrison kicks about in the debris that surrounds the foundation and yelps when his foot hits something with a dull thud. After a moment of hopping on one foot and swearing, he kneels and brushes at the pile of sticks and dirt. I make my way over and catch Harrison just as he jolts back, tripping himself on his own boot laces, once again untied.
        At the base of the hut is a skull, toothless yet grinning, and blindingly white in the noonday sun. Once recovered, Harrison goes about clearing away more of the surrounding rubbish to find more bones sticking out of the earth. It is still laid out in a rather person-like shape. Whoever it was had gotten a shallow burial, at the very least. There must have been another with this person, unless the bear-thing buried its latest victim.
        I pull the skull up, leaving a crater in the dry earth behind, and hold it aloft. “Alas, poor Yorick!” I say, waving it around until dirt dislodges from the eye socket and dusts Harrison’s jacket. “I knew him well,” I continued before dropping the poor bastard back to earth and standing. “A fellow of bullshit, of most buffoonery.”
        “I doubt that’s how that went,” growls Moore, finally joining us, and yanking a humerus from the ground. There are bite marks of some description down the side, though I don’t know which side it would be if the arm were still attached to a person. “Where’d their teeth go?”
        Harrison shrugs and glares at the bones.
        “It’s from Hamlet,” I say, “A play.” Neither of my partners look away from the skeleton for a long time and when they do they ignore my comment and begin arguing about the edibility of the bear-thing that had attacked us.
        We hadn’t heard it coming over the din of the forest, not until it was mere feet from Moore, and though its jaws were open, its feet pounding the earth on its way to us, it made no sound of its own until its last breath heaved out. Moore hadn’t cared or hesitated. I wonder, briefly, if she would be as fast to shoot it if I had been in front of her and not behind her.


        Days later, Harrison swore there were faces in the trees. He’d first claimed it a week previously, but now he rambles about each nobby bit of bark he notices. Moore has taken to whacking him with her walking stick when he gets too loud. Moore swears that the forest had ears, but has yet to accuse any particular tree of spying.
        I just hope we were still heading away from our town, as ordered to. As long as we head northeast, it’s feasible to reach the other last-known town. We aren’t the first group to be sent out, but no one had returned before. Nevertheless, everyone says it’s possible to reach the other village and return a hero. The woods just get deeper, though, and we haven’t see any other people, or remnants of people, since dear Yorick weeks prior. I can’t tell the direction the sun is moving through the leaves. Even at what I believe it to be midday, the forest floor is cloaked in shadow and most of our light came from the bugs and life on the ground.
        We meet more bear-things on our travels, though. They look nothing like the first bear-thing, but I continue to refer to them as such for they seem too intelligent to be referred to as beasts. I notice they all have very interesting eyes, sometimes like a cow's or a child’s. One bear-thing had hands and I could have sworn there was a glint of metal on one of them, but Moore had shoved me away before I could look closer. She hates the bear-things, but she still eats them like Harrison and I.


        The trees split apart. For weeks the trunks were just getting thicker and thicker, until even Harrison, with his considerable wingspan, could not hug them all the way around. Now, though, what would have been the trunk splits into dozens of wrist-width-sprouts. They still connect at the base, but shatter into tall veins that reach up and join the canopy.
        Moore has taken to boxing her ears every few minutes. It’s a hatefully welcome sound over the din of the forest. The trees are whispering, she tells me, and I tell her I thought that the forest was humming and she agrees to that, too. Her eyes are wild now. I think they may be the wrong color, but I’m having difficulty remembering why we’re here at all and who she is and what bears are.


[k]


        This bear-thing is red, red like Moore’s hair, and had been screaming. It’s the first bear-thing to do that as it charges from the trees. I’m now very afraid, and I think my friends are too. Moore had frozen at the sound and the bear-thing rammed her over. Its bulk had knocked some of Moore’s teeth loose and she howled.
I think it has Moore’s eyes. The color is rather off, but I’d recognize the crazed look anywhere. Moore is screaming now, I think. I think it’s Moore, but perhaps its the forest. It’s difficult to tell anything apart here.
        Harrison is doing nothing. He’s holding his face inches from a nearby tree, murmuring to himself.
        “Madness in great ones must not unwatched go,” I say, more to myself than to anyone else, but Moore’s gaze still snaps to mine and she still charges at me.


        I noticed that time passed. I only notice it sometimes. 
        Harrison and I are alone now. A woman was with us, I think, but then something else was with us that was very grand and very monstrous. I think she realized that she was very grand and very monstrous and ran away.
The woods around us are very loud, though, so I don’t feel lonely. Very loud indeed. Harrison doesn’t speak to me and I don’t speak to him.
T[l]he trees are no longer trees, either, and instead are ropey, ghastly, infinite cage bars that lurch out of the buzzing undergrowth every few feet and connect high in the darkness above us.
I feel out of place in myself. Something is in my throat and behind my eyes.
The bear-things keep coming. Yesterday I saw a red one, it clenched it’s paws a lot, but it didn’t charge us. Harrison shot it anyway. He isn’t a very good shot, but neither am I. We weren’t meant for that sort of activity.


We found a friend today. A dead one, but a friend nonetheless. This one also has no teeth and there’s a hole in its forehead. It isn’t Yorick, I know that by the hole. Harrison carries the skull for a few hours but drops it to tie his shoe and forgets to pick it up again. I don’t mention it.


This morning Harrison awoke choking on teeth. His are falling out.
The trees are becoming more tree-like. I think the earth is glowing a little less.


I can see the sun! It’s finally above us, but I don’t remember the sky being green. Harrison slurs that it’s always been green, but I’m not convinced. I know things and I know that I know things, but the forest makes it so hard to remember.
        I need to remember more, I know that. There’s so much more for me to remember and to remember that I know.


        “You know,” said Harrison, though I can hardly understand him, “I understand now. I do, I really do.”
        I say nothing. I think he’s speaking to a tree again.
        “Good-bye,” he says, and I think he’s speaking to me, but his gaze is fixed overhead, “Good-bye,” he says over, and over, and over again.
        “I read a book,” I said.
        “Good-bye, good-bye.”
        “And it said noble hearts crack.”
        “Good-bye.”
        “So what happened to you?”


        Time has passed again. I realize that now. 
        I’m writing this all down as the sun sinks below the treeline, now only visible as a man’s eye is in the sag of death, and I can see the outline of home far below me. I am writing all that has transpired so far. It’s too far to make it home. There is no library to be seen, I had nearly forgotten it’s destruction. Home looks far smaller now, too. The roofs look wrong and too clean. I can’t see my house from here, either, and I don’t remember my home being so well kept. I won’t ever be able to compare it to when I left and so I’ll never know. I think it’s ugly, though.
I[m] can feel it. My bones ache and my skin prickles.
        Harrison is gone. He succumbed early this morning in the grey of dawn and fled back to the depths of the woods. I didn’t have the heart to peek at him for he must have been monstrous to be so frightened of himself. He left one of his boots behind, but I don’t imagine he’ll need either of them.
        It won’t be long now, I don’t think. Perhaps this evening. It’s harder to resist at night when nothing is dark and everything hums. Even closer to a town, it hums. The hum clings. Invades. A loud rot. 
        I do hope no one finds me in here for if they do they won’t have long. Perhaps I’ll throw this journal as far forward as I can. Hopefully whoever follows, for surely others will, either out of desperation or ego, will find it and turn back. Or perhaps not.
        I remember reading about Mount Everest and its many bodies. A long time ago. The hikers that just couldn’t reach the summit and those that did and could not return. Those who were left behind by the aforementioned, too. Hundreds of them slumped over and preserved by the mountain. Cradled in the snow and wind for eternity, or very close to it. Humanity’s dues for trespassing, perhaps. Humanity used the bodies as landmarks and trudged past their fallen in search of the summit, though not out of any kind of necessity. I can’t fathom that, but I can forgive those who will come after me, here, in the woods. Home is decaying and the forest is full of life. Even now it appears to be a refuge, though a refuge without humanity.
        The woods are not a mountain and the bodies here are either rotten or very soon to be rotten, as I will be soon. To describe the forest as a nightmare would be to describe an ocean as bigger than a goldfish.
        It doesn’t matter now. The sun is gone and I can no longer see home. What is the use of this journal anyway.
        I can’t stop giggling, I just can’t, and my chest aches with it all. “Words, words, words,” I hear myself say, but it doesn’t sound quite right coming from my mouth now. Not right at all.
        “Words, words, words,” I say. That’s all this is. Take them apart and they’re useless, but no one in the world will read this. Perhaps I’ll burn this journal and it’ll be as destroyed as I will be. If someone reads this then they’ll know I chose to throw it. I have never been altruistic, but perhaps just this once. I briefly wonder if Mount Everest had warning signs, but it doesn’t matter.
        I know, and I know so few things now, that it is all ugly. The Rot and the woods are all the same to me. They’re ugly, but I can’t explain why.
        I’m holding my journal now. If I drop it like Harrison dropped his shoe, so be it, and if I don’t, those who come after me be more damned.


________________


Wildlife Expansion
[PC] [DU]


        The morning I heard the news about the Wildlife Expansion I was at home visiting my mother who told me that she had dreamed of this a week ago, this very thing, and now, amazingly, it was happening. Every bird and mammal was now twenty percent larger than they had been the day previous.
        Squirrels across the world were now ready to take on pre-expansion Jack Russell terriers and pigeons were now the basketball-sized menaces of every major city. The rats of New York City are unmentionable, but unquestionably too large for comfort.
        The midwest is now incredibly alarmed as the zombie deer virus outbreak is now affecting deer that are much larger than they had been. And, as most would assume, the larger zombie deer is the worse zombie deer. The blondest news anchor available said someone qualified said that someone more qualified in a different field saw a moose with symptoms of the same virus.
        The next morning at eight in the morning a violently colored banner zipped across the bottom of the screen, an emergency alert reminding people that animals were still bigger. “Animals have risen to new heights,” says the blond news anchor, “More on that at nine.” Animals are now forty percent larger than they had been and Mom keeps glancing at her German shepherd. He now takes up the entire living room loveseat and not just a single cushion.
        Zoos have no recourse. What do you do with car-sized lions, really? The elephants are a lost cause and so are the giraffes.


        Australia has announced a state of national emergency. There is a one to two ratio of humans to kangaroos and the ratio is not in humans’ favor. The blond news anchor says that “it used to be plague-like proportions, but now it’s… worse.” I didn’t entirely understand it, but I understood that, regardless, there were too many kangaroos. They should be glad that snakes and spiders weren’t growing otherwise Australia would be a lost cause. I also hope they have this resolved come magpie season otherwise they’re equally doomed.
        Three weeks since the initial Wildlife Expansion and animals have held steady at eighty percent larger than their original size. The zombie deer disease is still spreading, though the epidemic seems unrelated to the spontaneously growth of animals. The news anchor assured everyone that there will not be a zombie deer Armageddon in the near future. “I promise you,” he said, “My sources tell me that zombie deer disease does not make deer crave flesh, it’s just sad.” The anchor paused and looked behind the camera. “Oh,” he continued, “and it kills them. More tomorrow, bright and early.”
        I got off the phone with mom today and apparently she is considering buying her German shepherd a saddle.
________________


Divine Pigeon
[PC]


        “I’m going to do you a favor,” says the pigeon to God. The concept of God is abstract for a pigeon, but a pigeon such as this one understand the basics: you can talk to God. He knows this because he’s gotten stuck in not only an Episcopal church, but also a Catholic one and when God’s friend was sweeping him out with a broom he kept saying “dear Lord” and “God help me.” Pidge, for that’s what most pigeons called themselves, explained further, “I’m going to show you my collection.”
        From his perch on a suspiciously greasy fire escape, Pidge swung his wing imperiously over the Manhattan street below. Turning his pecker skyward—heavenward, some humans say—he began the tale. “You see, humans are so easy to collect. My pals grab wrappers. Pidge has so many burger papers it’s nutso. Pidge has more earrings than there are ducks in Central Park. Me, though, I like the humans. They organize themselves. I don’t even need a nest to keep them in. 
        “Look, look at that one,” he says, bobbing his head to the street again. There walks a woman in perilously narrow and tall heels, a cellphone to her ear. “She’s always got the sharpest plumage. I don’t mean sharp like stylish, like oh wow look at her she’s as sleek as a swan. No, she just has shoulder pads and you could put your eye out on the pointy corners. Those shoes? Wowee, I have nightmares about getting stepped on with those. 
        “She’s real ambitious, though, that’s why she dresses all sharp. It’s socially unacceptable to carry swords around, so you have to stick them to your shoulders and your feet and sometimes your ears. I’ve followed her to work a few times, and she needs all of that. It’s good for her.” Pidge trailed off, scouring the ground for the others in his collection. Cooing, he hopped along the fire escape bannister, following the speedy one he’d spied as best as he can. 
        “That one! Oh, God, I bet you love that one. He’s an artist, but not a good one. It doesn’t stop him.” The boy in question, pizza-faced and grinning with bits of food perpetually stuck in his braces, sped by on his skateboard. “Well, I bet you can see him even better than I can, but have you seen his stuff? C’mere, God, I’ll show you.” Without waiting for an answer, because this God was clearly a verbally restrained sort of guy, which Pidge could appreciate, he dipped forward and dropped from his perch. The stuffy updraft let him sail across the street, over the traffic lights and crosswalks and on to a roof about a block away. 
        “Ah, shit, fuckrats,” Pidge exclaimed, stepping daintily over the bird spikes lining the bricks, his feathers ruffling and rising like a bush in the breeze. “You have to do something about these, you know, it’s too preemptive if this is what’s awaiting me in hell.” He found a safe corner to perch and clucked excitedly down at the alleyway between buildings. There was a mound of trash bags in the corner and food wrappers carpeted the pavers. On the brick wall was a big graffiti mural. Given that he was a pigeon, Pidge had no idea what it said, and given that the boy was an awful artist he also couldn’t make out what it was supposed to be, but it was green, orange, and pink.
        “Y’see why I like this one? He’s got an eye, a good eye. I bet if he was in charge of designing birds he would’ve given me those colors.” Musing like this was a good pastime for birds like Pidge, like all the Pidges. It’s rough being a pigeon when there were parrots and budgies and peacocks. Even swans were all elegant in their minimalism. “Sorry, sorry, God, this wasn’t supposed to be about me. Listen, I know you’re busy—that church was real full when I dropped in—but let me show you this one last one, this one’s a good one.”
        Once more Pidge took flight, rising above the tight-knit buildings and sailing over the stink. The city could look small like this, but pigeons always knew how big it really was. Everything was so tall when you’re small. 
        He alighted on the windowsill of a squat building, it’s awning below was tattered and faded like a dying cardinal. “This one I’ve named. This one is named Steve. Here, look, this window has a good view.” Pidge bobbed out of the way so the sky could have an unfettered view through the grimy window. Inside sat Steve, an elderly man with hair like uncolored cotton candy that sat in a halo over his ears and connected to his unibrow, in front of the television. “He used to do a whole lot more. He had this woman with him, Stevenie, and they’d go walk in the park. They’d see the artists stuff and they’d ooh and awe and they’d smile at that lady who needs a sword.” Pidge watched as Steve sighed, harrumphing, and changed the channel. “He used to feed us pigeons in the park, the ducks too. Even the swans liked him enough.”
        Pidge looked up again at the clouds. “Hey, next time I’ll show you the rest of my collection, cause I think you’ve been missing some of the good ones. The real good ones. You know them now, though.” The pigeon dismissed God, turning back to the window and the old man sat in front of the tv, an empty armchair next to him. 


































________________


You
[PC]
You lost, didn’t you? You lost your daughter, then your wife, and then your daughter again. I wonder when you lost yourself. Was it when your father hit you? Was it when you had nearly a dozen siblings who cast shadows over you, one of the youngest? Was it when you first picked up a drink that had been fermenting longer than you were able to stay in school, and get an education before you were told to drop out and come home to work on your family’s ranch? Who are you? There is so much I don’t know about you. You’re my father, but half of what I have just written is pure conjecture. You did that. You made yourself a figment of my imagination. As a child I worshiped you. I missed you because you were never around. You were working. You were doing what your parents had taught you; putting providing for your family above all else, which included the well-being of your family members.
Your wife told you that she needed you at home, but you had never been taught how to do that. You had never seen it growing up. You tried but you were tired. You felt like you were doing your job and yet she was always disappointed and asking for more. Asking for things you didn’t know how to do. So you looked for comfort in your daughter. The tiny baby girl who didn’t know to fear you yet, and who admired you and loved you more than anything. Who cried when you were at work for weeks at a time, and who knew she was daddy’s girl. She prided herself in that title. It became her blindfold. You saw something that you had never seen before. You saw unconditional love. Something you didn’t get from your parents, your siblings or even your wife. You saw it in this small girl. And once you felt it you knew it was all you wanted. And you began to resent the woman who married because she had developed into an adult and recognized that unconditional love is sickness when you are above a certain age.
You began to resent the woman you married for not giving you the unconditional love that your toddler did. You grew angry. She wanted to go to therapy but you had been raised to think that going to a person for help for anything was a sign of weakness rather than strength. You got divorced. A sign of failure in your family. Then she tried to take your baby girl away. You had already lost a daughter in childbirth. And now she was trying to take away the one human in the world who loved you unconditionally? Hell to the fucking no. She was the monster. And I was the prize.
You fought. You fought your ex-wife. You fought the judge. And you won. Your little ray of sunshine would have to visit you four weeks a year. I was your everything and you would have to make do with four weeks.
But then something changed. I grew up enough to realize that I didn’t want to spend two weeks at a time with a man who I didn’t know. I now cried for my mother and not you. I now cried when she left and I was with you. The one person who gave you unconditional love for the first time in your entire 54 years of life was now taking it back? She couldn’t. You wouldn’t let her. You would shower her with gifts. That didn’t work. You would bring another woman into your life to be your daughter’s mother when your ex-wife was not there. That didn’t work.
This small child continued to cry. She cried all fucking night! She kept you up reminding you again and again that she didn’t love you. Maybe she never loved you. But you could change that. You could make her love you. You could make her love you.
You showed her you were stronger than her. You showed her you were bigger. You used the tactics your parents had taught you on how to raise a child. You got on top of her and pressed your penis hard into her crotch with her legs sprawled and made her call “uncle” again and again when she couldn’t push you off with her tiny legs. You had her pretend to be a possum and you would tower over her and sniff and paw as the predator that you were. You showed her that fear and love were one in the same right? And it worked. She started to learn. If she was good and obedient and didn’t cry, she would be rewarded. This wasn’t wrong. This was showing her how the world worked. You respected and loved the things that could hurt you if you didn’t. You weren’t a pedophile, you were a teacher and a father. You were helping her learn. You were getting back the unconditional love that you craved.
But then oh shit she grew up again, didn’t she? And she started putting pieces together. She turned the “she”’s into “I”’s, and I started to figure out why I was scared of my male teachers. And why I jumped when people closed their binders. And why I felt so inferior and ashamed. Why I always felt like I had to prove myself. Why I liked checking the boys into the wall during sports. Why I too started to look for unconditional love. But I was smarter than you. I put the pieces together and put the shit you had dumped on me in small boxes and put them away when I was done grieving them. And then I cut you out. Your last chance to find what you thought you needed was gone. You had never seen her as an opponent until that nice policeman showed up on your doorstep with the restraining order from your newly 18-year-old daughter. And you lost her again.
I get it now. I get why you did it and what you were thinking and what you were trying to do. I’m sorry for the baby boy who was abused, and for the young man who was met with hate and disapproval instead of love. I’m even sorry for the adult who now drinks to try and quiet the demons in his mind. I get why you did it all. You are sick and you need help. I’m strong enough now to see that I was not the only victim in our story. But I’m different than you. I’ve tamed the monsters in my mind and now they fuel my fire. I will never say that what you did was fucking okay. But I forgive you. I will never be like you. You are my antithesis. I fight the DNA you gave me every day. I am winning. I have won. And I will win.
































[a]Moved this from second stanza
[b]Every other lines here is indented in the original
[c]drawer?
[d]All indentations are aligned.
[e]Not necessary to copy edit
[f]Added indents at the start of the paragraphs.
[g]Indentations/spacing between paragraphs are like this is OG
[h]Original did not have a space in between these two paragraphs, I don't know if that was anything intentional though
[i]Indentations to start paragraphs
[j]Some of the indents pasted weirdly, so they have more spaces than a normal tab. I just deleted and replaced each one with a tab
[k]Two indents?
[l]Indent here
[m]Indent﻿Note: if you can’t find a piece, remember to use Command +F!








Wipers  [DU]


I look to my brother, my twin,
suffering the same fate as I.
He commands us to part the ocean;
Moses, we need to be.
We have only our bodies, and
an endless deluge of water;
Sisyphus, we are.
We spend our days waiting for Him
to command us, slaves
to His desires. A necessity for Him,
an uncovering of His eyes.
Without us, He stays blind.
Loneliness is a terrible blindness.


And the ocean flows on, drowning
everything in its path.




Ethan Barrows












































Bad Schandau [DU] 


As we leave the cream houses with red-tiled roofs
On the banks of the river Elbe
Dotted with gliding swans and moseying ducks,
The Gothic steeples towering over Meissen
Hearkening back to the days of ribbed vaults and
Resounding chants in minor keys,
The GPS lady develops a most atrocious
Case of laryngitis,
Starts choking and gravely regurgitating
Names with myriad guttural consonants


A young curmudgeon in the making,
You slam the brakes
Give the steering wheel a whack
And turn her off
―I don’t need a moronic machine
telling me what to do―
Rerouting onto a gravely country road,
You urge me to get outta the goddamn car
And check the cellphone signal.


A splotchy blood orange hovers in the sky
Squirting its crimson juices on the horizon.
Golden wheat stalks sway in the wind,
Brushing past my nose and sprinkling
Grains into my hair.
I’ve always been offended by plants
That have the audacity to grow
Taller than me


Having a vastly different bone to pick,
You whine
―We’ll never get to Bad Schandau at this rate―
Appalled at every slight alteration to your plans.
But maybe you’re a Bad Schandau for gracing us with
Your terrible navigation skills
And I’m a Bad Schandau for not helping.


When the syrupy ochre pancake rises in the sky,
I start cackling like a ludicrous lunatic,
Managing to blurt out
―Look, it’s a honey moon―
In between my wheezing teehees.
With a patronizing scowl,
You assure me that there will never be
A honeymoon,
I can just forget about it,
And that you’re sleeping in the car.


I lie down in the field,
Sinking into the crackling dry grass,
Gazing at this appetizing ceiling above
That looks like it’s dotted with vanilla sprinkles,
Realizing that I haven’t eaten since morning.


You know what…
Maybe it’s okay that we’re not
In Bad Schandau right now,
Because I kind of
Sort of
Forgot to make a hotel reservation anyway.




Louise Faitar














































to patrick berzins 
a mouse and house
met a house and a mouse


mice
house


Zengel Chin 
































































                                Autumn Springs 


The monsters of the Conall household always acted up at the dinner table. 
Douglas Conall’s mighty lion-like beast had a habit of nudging his arms with its wet snout so he would spill his drink. Tonight, the candles his wife had pulled from the back of the dining room cabinet cast a rippling glow on the lion’s scarlet fur making it shine like a fresh wound. Penelope focused her gaze on the pasta mountain on her plate rather than looking into its drooling, toothy face. 
At this point in the night the twin candles had melted to half of what they once were, and Jean Douglas’s eyes were watery enough to reflect their light. Penelope hated when her mother cried— an event as common as the heat of the summer. Her tears signaled the appearance of her own monster. Well, Penelope wasn’t sure whether or not it could be called a monster, but the fear that ran through her looking at it made her think it an apt title. As soon as that little clown’s bell-riddled hat poked up over the edge of the table Penelope felt her throat tighten. It’s rotten, multicolored suit and sad, dark eyes has the special skill of making her feel guilty for something she couldn’t remember doing. Penelope was sure it resembled how her mother felt: embarrassed and mocked when she cried. Her mother’s shame spoke volumes even when she could not.
        “We aren’t talking about this anymore,” Douglas said. He often spoke in loud proclamations these days. Penelope suspected it likely had to do with the amount of thin glass bottles she saw piling up in the recycling bin. As his voice crescendoed in time with the draining of his glass, the lion’s growl did the same. 
        “Like hell we aren’t,” her mother responded. Penelope looked up. ‘Hell’ was one of those words her mother had warned her against using around other kids at school. If Jean wasn’t self-censoring in front of her daughter, then Penelope was going to pay attention.
        Jean’s knuckles around her fork were turning white. Her dark hair slipped out of its clip. Penelope thought of the warriors in her picture books. This was what they looked like when they were about to go into battle.
        “I’m going back into the office on Monday,” she said.
        Douglas had gone silent, but the lion roared. Penelope covered her ears.
        “There’s no need—” he began.
        “Minnie called me earlier. They’re piling up in manuscripts,” Jean said. As an afterthought she added, “And I miss editing.”
        “I already told you I’m working late this week. You can’t—”
        “I see. So, we’re one of those families now. The big, strong man of the house gets to—”
        “Jesus Christ, don’t make it a feminist—”
        “Don’t act like your work is more important—”
        “I’m a doctor.”
        “Thank you, because I’d forgotten that fact.”
        “I’m only saying that out of the two of us, you’re the one who can take off. Enjoy that. Besides, you shouldn’t be going back in before you’re ready.” 
        “And you’re an expert in knowing your limits, aren’t you?”
        Penelope glanced up over the dinner spread as her parents argued. The lion was now arching back to pounce. It’s gargantuan yellow teeth bared at the clown throwing a tantrum next to it. Watching the clown wail and kick and jingle its jester’s hat bells was a ghastly sight. She didn’t understand how her parents ever heard themselves think with those creatures around.
        “Can you put them away?” Penelope heard herself squeak out before she could catch herself.
        Her parents turned towards her. The lion and clown did the same.
        “What was that, sweetheart?” her mother asked, putting on the smile she saved for Penelope even with the glistening tear tracks on her cheeks.
        Penelope didn’t say anything at first, to which Douglas prodded, “Put who away?”
        “Them,” Penelope pointed to the two creatures on the floor. 
        Douglas and Jean met each other’s gazes this time with more concern than malice.
        “I think you should go to bed early tonight, dear” her mother said while still looking at her husband in confusion. “It sounds like your nerves about school starting on Monday are getting to you.”
        Penelope frowned, “What does that mean?”
        “Why don’t you put your pjs on?” her father said. 
        Befuddled but happy to get away from the battleground, Penelope pulled back from her barely-touched plate and ran upstairs. As she changed out of her dress into her Tinkerbell nightgown, she wondered for the first time if her parents hadn’t noticed the monsters.
        She climbed into bed without brushing her teeth and listened as her parents’ muffled voices slowly rose again in her absence. Penelope didn’t dream that night.
***
        She woke in the late morning, put on the overalls Jean insisted were too big for her still, snuck a granola bar from the kitchen, and slipped out the front screen door before her parents could catch her. She scurried down the wooden porch steps towards the swing set in their neighbors’ yard she often borrowed. She walked barefoot on the sidewalk, balancing along the tracks of tennis shoe, paw, and stroller wheel imprints from before the cement dried fully. Penelope liked the patterns they made.
        She hopped up onto the center swing and ate her breakfast. She liked this view of her house better than its interior. The pale yellow paint and white-trimmed windows made it look more like a fairytale cottage. The maple trees around it hadn’t yet lost their summer green. She used to like the inside too, with all the strange found furniture her mom filled it up with making it stand out from the other houses in Franklin, Tennessee. Those houses probably didn’t have monsters though.
        “Penelope!” She glanced behind her to see Maggie and Nelson Thurman running in her direction.
        The twins lived a few houses down. They were in her class at school, and Penelope and Maggie used to be inextricable. Now, whenever Penelope saw Maggie’s puffed sleeves and matching puff pigtails, she turned away.
        It was nothing Maggie (or Nelson for that matter) had done, but things had changed.
        Nelson ran past her and climbed the slide attached to the swingset, and Maggie leaped into the swing next to her. Penelope picked at her wrapper and kicked the gravel at her feet.
        “Hi!” Maggie greeted her. She was already swinging a mile a minute. Penelope sighed; Maggie usually expected the rest of the world to keep up with her.
        “Hey,” Penelope pinched her cheeks into a smile mimicking the one her mother did when she was trying to hide her unhappiness. 
        “Are you excited for tomorrow? I think we should try to sit next to each other this year,” Maggie exclaimed.
        “Uh huh,” was all Penelope could get out. She wasn’t looking forward to school. First grade felt like a place for girls who didn’t spend their summer in a beast-infected household. She kept her head down, casting her curls in a curtain over her face. Usually when she did this her parents knew to stop talking to her. She hoped it would work with Maggie.
        “Wait until you hear about what Nelson and I did this summer,” it didn’t work. Maggie tumbled into a story about Disney World and visiting relatives at the beach. Penelope let the rhythmic creak of the swings’ chains and the occasional hum of cars passing drown out Maggie’s voice. She had no desire to learn about other kids’ summers. Jealousy began to bubble up in her chest.
        “Oh, and Mom and I just went shopping, I want to show you the dress I’m going to wear—”
        Penelope cut her off by leaping out of the swing. She decided to once again imitate her mother’s voice again: “I’m going to go home now. It was lovely to see you again.”
        She didn’t wait to see Maggie and Nelson’s response. She took off running. All of her classmates had been gone all summer at summer camps or on family vacations. Penelope had enjoyed being the only kid in the neighborhood whenever she needed to escape her house. There were intruders in both of her homes now. 
        She wasn’t even back in school yet, and already she was weary. The thought of running and playing not by herself weighed her down in a way she didn’t understand. 
Well, maybe she did. The beginning of the summer dug a hole into her life. She got comfortable with that emptiness. She didn’t want to refill it.
        Penelope felt a familiar pressure behind her eyes. She hadn’t cried in two months, and she wasn’t going to start now. She slid to a halt once she reached her front steps. She shut her eyes and clenched her fist until the pressure released. She had taught herself that trick after she saw her mother cry for the first time and swore to never embarrass herself like that. Once calmed, she opened her eyes and began to climb up the steps. 
A dog sat in front of her door, or something in the shape of a dog at least. Actually, it looked almost like a wolf. The only feature she could make out aside from its sharp outline was its eyes. Their pale blue felt familiar. It’s coat was such a deep black that it looked more like a shadow than anything tangible. Looking at it against the pastel house felt like looking at the absence of light. 
“Hello,” Penelope whispered. She put a hand out to pet the creature, but it cowered. She thought she should perhaps be scared of it, but it seemed more afraid of her. 
Deciding not to bother it, she stepped around its trembling figure and went inside. After the screen door rang shut, she turned to see it sitting in front of her once again. 
Penelope was very aware of the creature trailing her heels as she made her way to her room. Its faint whimpers and panting echoed around her head. 
Before reaching the stairs, she passed her mother’s office and noticed the door ajar. She put her eye up to the crack left open to see Jean hunched over her desk. One hand held a phone to her ear, and the other clenched the arm of her chair. 
“I shouldn’t have brought this up with you to begin with,” Penelope deduced that she was talking to her father.
“Well too late,” Jean scrunched up her shoulder to secure the phone and began typing away at her laptop. “I’m booking an appointment for her.”
After a pause she added, “I’m only setting one up for now. Just one. We’ll see how it goes and then discuss further.”
Penelope heard a bell chime and turned away from the door. The clown that followed her mother around had appeared next to her. Standing, it went up to Penelope’s waist. It didn’t try to harm her; it just stood and looked at her with horrid black eyes and quivering lips. Still, it made her gut clench.
“This will be good for Penelope,” her mother’s voice caught her attention again. “She needs someone to help her who isn’t us— a professional. You know this is all happening at a crucial time for her development. We really should have done this sooner.”
The clown reached up and grabbed Penelope’s hand. It looked at her with a gaze that played at sorrow. She bolted for the stairs.
She ran past the door to the room the Conall family was pretending didn’t exist, and into her own. She dove onto her bed and slid her head under the pillow. Her chest heaved, and she clenched her fists in her quilt. Her second near-explosion of the day.
She stayed there until the rush left her and a panting centered her. She slowly removed the pillow above her head to see the canine creature standing eye level with her. 
Penelope let out a rattling breath. She had figured out why that gaze looked so familiar to her. As if she had waved a white flag, the dog took that moment as a sign of surrender. It jumped onto the bed and curled itself around her. Penelope stayed there in that sadness for most of the day: her books, her dolls, her monster, and herself.  
***
        They ordered pizza for dinner that night. Jean said it was to celebrate Penelope’s return to school the next day. Penelope fed bits of it to her new companion under the table. 
        Douglas barely touched his plate as well, yet he downed his glass of amber liquid. Penelope wondered if it tasted good with how many refills he went through in a night. His tormented gaze and hunched figure in his seat at the head of the table made him resemble an aging king. His white lab coat draped over the back of his chair hung like a retired royal cape. There was a time she thought of her father as the most powerful man she’d ever known. The viscous red monster growling at his feet and whipping its tail against the hardwood floor scared her, but nothing else about Douglas seemed awe-inspiring anymore.
        “Penelope,” her mother interrupted her thoughts. “After school tomorrow, I’m going to pick you up and take you to see a woman named Dr. Lovelace.”
        Her father huffed in annoyance, and the lion’s rumble began to increase. In turn, she heard the ringing of bells from her mother’s clown. She held her breath.
        “Your father and I,” Jean made a point of looking over at her husband, “think it would be good for you to spend some time talking to someone about what’s happened this summer. I’ve talked to Dr. Lovelace, and I promise you she is just as lovely as her name would suggest. How does this sound to you?”
        Penelope looked down into the eyes of the dog at her feet, then back up into her mother’s vulnerable gaze. For the first time, she asked, “Why can’t we talk about Josephine? Just us?”
        A wave crashed over Jean Conall. She reached across the table and clutched Penelope’s hand as the tears welled up. The clown started screaming and kicking its legs. Penelope felt she’d made a mistake.
        “Of course we can talk about her, dear,” Jean said. Something in her tone made Penelope decide she actually didn't want to go down that route. That was when the lion roared.
        Penelope startled and looked towards her father shaking in his chair. It screeched as he pushed it back. He stood towering over the table for a moment, then abruptly left the dining room. The lion lept out after him. 
        She looked back to her mother, but she didn’t seem quite as surprised. Penelope thought she likely couldn’t hear the roar. 
        “What would you like to talk about, Penelope?” she said. 
        Deciding to echo the previous night, she responded with, “Actually, I think I’ll go to bed early.”
***
        As much as she wished she didn’t at times, Penelope remembered everything about her older sister. 
        She remembered car trips to visit their grandparents in Chattanooga. Penelope’s tiny voice would mingle with Josephine’s more mature tone as they sang along to Disney movie soundtracks and the Rascal Flatts. No matter how many times Penelope refused to play, her sister would hit her each time a Beetle sped past them. 
        She remembered Josephine’s ballet recitals. She had just started en pointe before she had gotten too weak to dance. Penelope would play the part of the annoyed younger sibling in having to go to all of Josephine’s performances, but really, she loved them. Even when she was one among many snowflakes on stage, Josephine shined brighter than the rhinestones on her costume to Penelope.
        She remembered crossing the busiest street in town hand in hand with Josephine on the way to school. Josephine would stop in front of Penelope’s preschool and squeeze her grip on Penelope’s tiny fingers before heading towards her middle school.
        She remembered Josephine giving her a spoon of her late night ice cream even when their parents declared that Penelope couldn’t have sugar after seven o’clock.
        She remembered how Josephine would always ignore her for the first hour after her parents made her babysit. She also remembered how by the end of the night, they would have spent hours make-believing the house was a castle. Josephine always crafted the most intricate bedtime stories. 
        She remembered watching Josephine the first time she decided to try make-up on and straighten her hair. Penelope couldn’t understand why she would try to change something that was already beautiful. She was always jealous of  her sister’s sleek dark hair compared to her own light, frizzy curls. 
Then, Penelope remembered when Josephine lost all her hair, weight, and dignity. Once it started making her sick, she hated Josephine’s body too.
She remembered sitting on the edge of Josephine’s hospice bed and watching movies with her. The cartoons were always interrupted by her older sister retching in a bowl or requiring her oxygen machine. The bright orange pill bottles lining the bedside table contrasting with Josephine’s grey bags beneath her eyes. She never got used to how small Josephine’s hand felt in hers during those last few months.
She remembered a closed door with an opaque window. She sat with her grandparents in the hallway while a symphony of sickness echoed from other rooms. She could see the outline of screens and wires tying Josephine to the living in those final moments. Her father had thrown it open, breaking the only barrier between Penelope and her sister’s body. That was the first time Penelope saw his monster trailing after him. She was scared of him that day.
She remembered a funeral on a sunny day in June.
Penelope was still learning how to remember her sister in a way that didn’t hurt.
***
The dog’s bark woke her up. She squinted her eyes in the dark of her room to see it pawing at her door as it whined.
She got up and walked over to the door. The cold hardwood floor against the pads of her feet made her shiver. As soon as she opened the door the dog bolted for the one across the hall and began clawing at it too. 
Penelope’s heart sped up as she moved towards the door. Raising her hand to turn that doorknob felt like moving through molasses. She almost couldn’t do it.
The dog let out a bark. She looked at its pleading eyes, and opened the door to her sister’s room.
The light purple walls and white furniture felt too intimate. Penelope hadn’t entered this room in two months: it was achingly nostalgic and overwhelmingly unnatural. 
She climbed onto the furry white comforter of the queen-sized bed and curled in on herself. She saw Josephine’s jewelry box still open on the vanity. It had expected her to come home from the hospital ready to make herself over again. Penelope used to think that too.
The dog jumped up next to her on the bed and began whimpering again. She followed its gaze to the ventilator next to them. It commanded the space in all its hideous, mechanical glory. The beeping that she used to hear each night still haunted her.
And yet, that wasn’t the thing that sent her over the edge. The sight of the cardboard boxes piled up in front of the closet with her mother’s handwriting in sharpie made her want to scream. They read, “Josephine’s clothes— for Penelope.”
The idea that her parents were waiting for her to grow up into Josephine’s skin made her tremble. She had no interest in filling the space Josephine left behind— she was only recently growing comfortable with that vacancy.
The dog rested its obsidian head on her leg. It looked up at her with Josephine’s eyes. Penelope laid down next to the beast and cried for the first time since Josephine’s death.
***
Both of her parents walked her to the bus stop at the end of the street. Douglas had argued over breakfast that Penelope was old enough to go by herself, and that he had to get to work early. Jean wouldn’t hear it, and so what was left of the Conall family made their way down the avenue.
The bus hadn’t arrived yet once they reached their destination. As they waited, a breeze ran through making Penelope’s hair float up and brush her cheeks. Fall was on the way.
She paused for a moment once the bus slid up in front of them. She felt that stepping onto it would be the end to an important chapter. In a moment of bravery, she said, “Josephine should’ve been the one walking with me today.”
The silence that followed spoke louder than anything her parents could have said.
“It’s not fair,” she continued.
“No,” her father’s voice cracked. He put a hand on her shoulder, and she lifted her eyes to see his pained face, “it’s not fair.”
The bus pulled up in front of them, and she quickly boarded. Once seated, she looked out the window to see her father bent over herself and her mother pointedly looking away with cloudy eyes.
A wolf, a lion, and a clown all stood behind them. She watched them retreat back to the house.




Katy Gilmore




 Transferal [DU]


Away from home… and then all at once 
not. The midnight heart-to-heart


happened before we could let it.
You decaffeinated everyone else,


poached the elephant in the room,
each half of this conversation


existing only in our heads for months.
We texted once over Christmas break.  


You never pictured your bracelet changing hands,
its meaning spilled over, transferred to me.


Transferal to Boston, to block parties,
to living like your little brother.


To think of years spent on opposite shores
almost linked by two mutual friends then


finding out you were always looking out,
each little secret bundled up higher and higher.


Two decades as strangers eroded in months.
Landmark cigars and late-night 30 Rock. 


And then, lying beached on your bedroom floor
and the look of recognition on my car seat.


Walking back from the bar like middle-school 
friends, zigzagging from orexic laughter.


I drove home with one hand, the other miming
fullness, disbelief, thankfulness, somehow. 




Paul Verdirame










The boy I kicked out of my room last night 


did not know that my bones are icy cold,
that these blue strands across my skin are not
the veins that they appear to be but rather
barbed-wire, that digs and cuts its way into me.
He was surprised by my tear soaked eyes,
and by my skin, which was bruised by life’s needles—
boring their way through me, into my soul.


When moonlight glinted off my smile, fake like
his, he saw my broken body. His lips
fell and formed a little “oh.” I cried “go.”


And then I watched him fade away into
the dark, despairing night. He left without
a backwards glance
as he fled my sorry house.




Alexa Kirby






































A ghastly ghostly hoe down throw down  [DU]


Oooh noooo it’s a ghost
A cold, sexy
Hot lil ghost
Right here in my home


I’ll say your name 3 times 
So that you appear behind me
And give me that 
ghosty good good


And then I’ll climb up
Up under that dirty sheet
And let you slink around 
My haunted halls


No priest necessary 
Just me,
you,
And a whole lot of plasma




Patrick Berzins
































The Poetry Anthology 


A red cover,
beaten, corners
no longer sharp,
holds a collection of poems
once visited by the ink
of my watchful pen.


Your hands held the same copy.
Your eyes devoured those same words
in pursuit of that right
combination of syllables— the ones
that would finally satiate your hunger.


Beside me in class,
you wrote notes in the margins of my copy
as I scribbled dreams in the blank spaces
between your stanzas. We never could fill
the gaps between us


so we left our story unfinished.


Now, your book sits
dusty and deserted
on the closet shelf.


You stumble across my memory
in the same way you stumble upon that
forgotten red book
when you’re looking
for something new to read.




Alexa Kirby










Green Collared Jacket


On the corner of Berkshire Road lies a little pond, wrapped in my footsteps. I sit on top of a
melting snowbank, curled into a ball, pen in hand. That green collared jacket hangs off my
shoulders, keeping my weak bones from the wind.


I stole it from your closet, Dad, and now I wear you everyday. The checkered padding on the
inside is tearing, but you still shield me on my long walks alone in this violent and never-ending
winter.


I put my hands on top of each other through the sleeves when they’re red and peeling, and I keep
my tissues in the left bottom pocket like you did, Dad. I leave the cuffs unbuttoned and the collar
down. And sometimes, when I cry, I wipe my cheeks on your sleeves, like I used to, Dad.


The first week after I left, that green collared jacket still smelled like you, like fresh bread and
blue aftershave, like comfort and like my school days, and when I buried my face in it, it felt like
a hiccup and a hug after a long and hard cry.


But little by little, you faded until you were gone, and that green collared jacket became mine.
When it lost your warmth, I knew it was up to me and only me to brave the winter wind. And as
you sit with me on the corner of Berkshire Road, on the side of the frozen pond, I know I’ll take
you everywhere with me even when you’re worn through and faded.




































Loretta on the Bayou 


They say you just rose out of
The marsh one day
With soggy overalls
And a wide-brimmed hat,
Salt crystallizing on your
Caterpillar-lookin’ eyebrows.
You blew your nose just a little
To get the algae out
And gave the world a crooked
Whiskey-stained grin.


The sun comes in through the
Weeping trees lined with
Spanish moss,
The rays landing right on
Your forearm.
You look down and
Flex your wrist,
Making the tattoo of the
Lobster-lookin thing move its
Pincers.
―It’s a crawdad―


You explain with a
Raspy croak,
As if this very distinction
Makes the world go round.


I never understood how you could
Live in such a
God-forsaken place,
Getting up before dawn
Just to go make clucking
Squawking noises
Out by the water,
Waiting until the herons
And egrets answer back.
How you collect
Broken banjo strings
And let them coil up in a jar
Because maybe one day
They’ll help you pick out
The sand granules
From between your teeth.


The air is oppressive


Steamy and wet,
Forming layers on my lungs.
Your soulful humming ceases
And your elbow jabs at my ribs.
―God-forsaken?!
No, my good fool―


You yank a dripping blade of
Grass with your calloused fingers
And hold it up.
―This is God’s sweat,
That white egret over there
Is an Angel,
And this is the closest to
Them you’ll ever get―


So when the sun sets
Over the morass and swamps
And the mosquitoes start
To swarm,
I know that I’ll still find you here,
Sloshing on the edge of
Paradise that’s


Sunken in the Delta.




Louise Faitar






The Quest for Wompas the Bastard [DU]


Out amongst the weeds
and the flipper-frill willows
We suddenly awoke
upon a green and brown pillow


Our heads were abuzz
with the wicker wisp tunes
As they danced from our bed
And back into the gloom


Their small little lanterns 
Had the hallow alight 
with the magic of Wompas 
the mysterious sprite


And but a moment later 
As if from a dream
Came that greying old bastard
In a flannel and jeans 


Now what do you want?
He boomed with a grin 
Do you know who I am?
He said stroking his chin


I’m Wompas the Fairy 
He quipped with a whistle
I dance with the trees
And sing with the thistle 


We’ve heard of the stories
I said with a start 
They say you grant wishes 
To those pure of heart


So we’ve come for your blessing
I continued to fumble
We just bought a beehive 
Whose genus is ‘Bumble’


They won’t make you honey 
He began with a laugh
 So what do you want 
From my ancient old ass


We wished for the health 
Of our bees in the end
We didn’t need honey 
We just wanted friends


Patrick Berzins




















































  [DU]
To the person who wrote the Depressing Ass Poem on the previous page:










ILoveYou.




Owen Fletcher




























































In the Night [DU]


The night feels damp and heavy through the window you’ve left open just a crack. You can
feel, almost smell the moisture seeping into your clothes as you drive. You shiver and
imagine your sweater is now at least ninety percent water.
Ahead, taillights drip down the back of your eyes like thousands of melted crayons.
The road under your tires shudders every few seconds and you wonder if somewhere, miles
away, there wasn’t an earthquake. The blackness envelops you, punctuated softly by minute
flecks of bright light. These are the signs of people living their lives. You were one of them
only hours earlier, before . . . no, you think, now’s not the time.
Your hands on the steering wheel feel like hunks of dead ice. They seem only to
respond eons after you command them to. White noise fills your ears: swish, swosh, swoosh.
It reminds you of a nursery rhyme, you’re not sure which, but your windscreen wipers are
now bothering you. Too much stimulation. You switch them off and smile to yourself for a
second. Now it’s the rattling of your engine or the bus chugging along beside you or the
occasional horn in traffic. Always something. You reach for the bottle to steady yourself.
The rain floods your windscreen and the taillights ahead become wetter, wetter, a
mirage of spilling light. Your own Atlantis. The cars on the opposite lane drive atop pillars of
their own reflected light, like driving over one long stretch of glass ballroom.
Maybe life wasn’t so bad, maybe you could be somebody, maybe you could become a
poet. But would it mean anything at all without her? You doubt it would.
Alone here, in this wet night is the closest you’ll come to happiness without Emma
and the comfort of marriage. The thought depresses you.
The lights beyond your windscreen start to flicker as the world around you becomes
fainter and fainter. The memory telescopes away.


***


You open your eyes, pissed off after succumbing to sleep. You need to do better than this.
Your eyes begin to focus, you’ve left the TV on, as always.
In sports news today, the newsreader says, Crystal Palace faced off against Leicester
City for the second time this season with Crystal Palace dominating Leicester for the duration
of the second half. Paul O’Flynn has more.
You’re tempted to throw the remote at the screen but instead you just switch it off.
Maybe if every dream wasn’t of the same night, maybe then it would be alright, but the more
you will yourself not to dream of it, the more you do. The simple solution: don’t fall asleep.
You stand up and get yourself a glass of murky water. The clock says twenty past six,
you glance out the window, overcast but still bright. You’re thankful for summer. Darkness
makes your life much, much harder. You feel empty, devoid, craving. If hunger didn’t exist,
you might never leave the flat. It took a long time to admit this to yourself but obviously it’s
true. Who would want to go out in your situation?
Today is one of those days when you know you must leave. You check the fridge, just
to be sure. Half a can of beans and a furry broccoli. Stupid fucking food. You vow vengeance
against the fridge as you slam its door shut. It closes softly, that’s a feature of the fridge,
apparently. You’re about to give it a kick then decide against it. This would only make
certain going out to buy a new one. Screw that.
Alone, here in your flat, his eyes aren’t on you yet, but they will be soon enough, you
know that. Just you wait, just you fucking wait. You grab your keys from the bowl, take a
deep breath and leave your apartment. The door closes loudly behind you.
As soon as you get out on the street, you can sense him behind you. Relentless,
efficient, ubiquitous. You don’t know what he has against you, even after all this time. You
find it impossible to do anything anymore. Even going to the shops is a struggle. He seems to
disapprove. You know you shouldn’t have gone out.
You can visualize him behind you. You wish you couldn’t, if only you didn’t have to
think about that horrid, bloated face. The long parka, the grizzled beard, the bubbling vape in
one corner of his cracked lips. Then the eyes, oh God the eyes, with their blank stare of death.
You shouldn’t think like this.
You dash into the local corner shop across the bridge and grab what you need. Milk,
eggs, bread, the essentials. Nothing fancy, you don’t have the time. The small, elderly cashier
is used to you by now so doesn’t question your examining of the other customers. You pay,
you say thank you. A good citizen.
You leave the shop and cross back over the bridge, almost identical to the one from
the night you dare not think of. He has gained on you, you can feel it. You glance over your
shoulder as you walk. A woman wheeling a pram gives you a startled glare. Fool. Doesn’t
she realize the danger she’s in? Then again, he is an expert at keeping three or four paces
behind ever getting caught. The smooth bastard.
You quicken your pace. The plastic bag clutched in your right hand flails wildly in the
breeze. The traffic lights ahead go from amber to red. You see your chance, you take it. You
throw yourself into the road against a flurry of blaring horns.
You sprint across four lanes of traffic, congratulating yourself for your immense
bravery and perseverance as you run. You’re past the curb and over it, zipping along. Relief
swells over you, the entrance to your building is only yards away. A smile cracks your lips,
home free. You’re almost there when a glass door opens to your right and you go through it.
This doesn’t feel great, like your entire body has been stung by ten thousand murderous
wasps. Your bag spills over the pavement and you find yourself in a pool of cold milk.
Somehow, you keep your eyes open because you want to be sure, yes you need to be
sure. He appears in a second, of course, as you knew he would, in his frayed army green
parka. A raised eyebrow and a knowing grin on his inverted features. He blows smoke in
your face, goodbye.


***


Falling, falling . . . but you know where you are. You’re there, in the night. To dream a dream
a thousand times.
The road flows under you like a river and suddenly you’re adrift. Floating along the
black rapids with dozens of others in their metal boxes. It would be pleasant if it wasn’t so
tragic. You take another swig of the bottle to stop the image of her coming to you. But, of
course, as soon as you think this, there Emma is. The same woman you held in your arms all
your adult life.
Her auburn hair, glinting in the buttery overhead light on your walk home the night
you first met. Her throaty laugh, those swimmable eyes, her warm, soft hands. Somehow,
against all the odds, she had believed in you. Believed you had talent when everyone
including yourself knows you’re nothing more than a schizoid drunk poorly disguised as an
artist. Ironic then that the only person who ever fell for your delusions was the very same
person you took all your frustration out on. The bottle has a lot to answer for and so do you.
But why tonight, of all nights? On the actual anniversary, could she not have waited?
Could divorce talk not have waited? Is she that sadistic? Apparently. Where does she expect
you to sleep? When you put this to her, she shrugged, actually shrugged like she was in a
goddamned soap opera. Cold bitch. No, no, you shouldn’t say that. All those good years
together but then . . . shit, there aren’t words for how you’re feeling.
The numbing process is starting to happen though. At least that’s something. Your
vision is lovely and blurry, like everything is just so excited to see you that they’re shaking.
All shaking. The whole world shaking for you.
You have the car, check, and the traffic around you too. Maybe you can stay here all
night. Freeze time and settle into the slick warmth of the road. Succumb to the rolling,
heaving, oil-clouded river of wheels and exhausts and grilles.
Curl up by a traffic cone, open your mouth to the pouring rain. Become a living,
breathing water feature.


***


You open your eyes, you’re not driving. That life is gone a while.
Here, right now, you’re lying in a white room, on a white bed while the wall across
from you beeps and whirrs. A window to your left opens on a vast car park. You feel as
though you might choke on the smell of bleach but at least he is nowhere to be seen.
Maybe this is what you’ve needed, total escape. You could go further even: get out of
the rat race, find a place in the countryside. Hell, find a woman, start a family, watch cricket,
go for long walks on the beach. Buy a farm, grow apples, pick the apples, play with your
kids. Smile, smile, always smile and die an old man with a free conscience.
Yes, yes, this idea is a nice one. All this business of a man following you is silly
anyway. Just totally ridiculous. Obsessive, some might call it. Yes, you admit, it’s damn
obsessive. Admitting it to yourself is the first step, they say. Yes, they do say that. You’ve
heard them. Obsessive and childish, you’re happy you’ve put all that nonsense behind you
now. Elated.
You hear footsteps in the hall. Someone checking in on you, isn’t that nice for a
change? The cream, heavy door to your right opens a crack and . . . and . . . his pallid face
stares in at you. You feel a sudden cold.
Oh, you’re up, he says and enters the room.
Naturally, you recoil from his grotesque form.
Relax, relax, I’m just checking your bandages, he says. You had quite the accident.
With the gentlest of touches, he lifts the bandages from your forehead. You never
knew he had it in him.
Looks like we’ll need to sort you out with some fresh ones. Your lucky day, he says
with a chuckle. I have some here.
He reaches into his caked-over coat pocket and produces a fresh roll of bandages.
You do your best not to vomit as his putrid fingers delicately wrap your head.
A car door slams shut. Out of the corner of your eye, you watch as two of him walk
from a car holding hands. But . . . what? Somehow, he is in two places at once.
Stay still, he says. I can’t wrap your head unless you stay perfectly still.
You glance at the corridor. The swishing sounds of hundreds of his mottled parka
attack your ears. Every few seconds, another one of him passes by, each with their own
individual purpose.
You stare, for what feels like ages, into the white turned back eyeballs in front of your
face. The mouth smiles and you can feel the bile rising.
We’ll get you all nice and fixed up now, so we will, he says.
Just fucking please, you say. Please, please, just leave me alone. I’m . . . I’m, I’m tired
of this. So tired.
You shrink back into yourself. He looks surprised.
Why do you do this? I’m sorry, Jesus Christ I’m sorry, okay? I didn’t mean it. It
wasn’t my fucking fault! Please, please, please.
He puts a hand on your shoulder. You close your eyes; you can feel the tears welling
up.
He tuts softly at you.
I’m sorry, I’m so sorry. I didn’t mean it, I didn’t mean it, you mumble.
You’ve started shaking and you can’t stop. You feel your energy draining.
In the world out there, there are footsteps and a whole commotion. Voices are heard.
You want him to turn into regular nurses and doctors but know the minute you open your
eyes, that’s not what you’ll see. You want no part in any of this anymore. It’s all . . . it’s all
just too much.
Things begin to lose focus as the world slowly tunnels away, like at the end of Looney Tunes, and you’re brought back. Back to the beginning of your nightmare.


***


You’re behind the wheel again, carried along in a sea of lights and it’s during this underwater
dusk that it happens.
Some thing, some person, some man is walking with another blob, some thing, some
person, his wife. The bridge you’ve turned on to is empty, you know that. The feeling of
freedom is like nothing you’ve experienced since Emma last let you have sex with her. You
have power here, the rumble of the car engine deep in the pit of your stomach proves it.
You think these blobs are nothing, like ants really, and too late, you are bearing down
on them like Mad Max. That brain of yours takes in the scenery but does little with this
accelerating information. Your shaking hands spin furiously on the wheel two seconds after it
matters.
Some thing, some person, some man hits your windshield. You notice the shock in his
eyes and his blood-stained beard, and his parka pulled over his shoulders before he bounces
loudly once and hurtles into the night, over the bridge and sinks into your crumbling Atlantis.
You imagine one raised hand clutching at air as it, the man, sinks.
The other blob lies prostrate somewhere beside your car, or behind it or under it.
Suddenly, everything becomes clear, highlighted in sharp relief and you realize your error.
You turn the keys, put your foot to the pedal and vanish in a puff of smoke.
You drive, you run, you hide.









Mark Jackson






















Dirty elbows, knees, ankles 


“Gangly
Grass-stained
Good-for-nothing-kids
Get-out-of-my-
Goddamn-field”


Goats grazing
Glare at us as we
Go hand in hand,
Gallop towards the fence, and
Gambol over the barbed wire.
Giggling the entire time, we
Get-out-of-the-goddamn-field.




Cecelia Durcan












































Fiona’s Sonata 


An ode to my grandmother
And her huge Sibley bird books:
Black-capped chickadees sing,
“Chick-a-dee-dee-dee, Sweet-ee”
As the conductor begins


To rouse an orchestra of
Songbirds into symphony,
It’s philharmonic flight.
“Jay-jay-jay” “Tut-tut” “Chirp-chirp”
Now her birdfeeder is a stage.


She points out first chair favorites -
Red-winged blackbirds pause to prune
Rounded ruby shoulders.
They’ve dressed sharply to perform
For us, captive concertgoers.


This is how we pass the hour,
Pulling guides off the shelf and
Spying a Schubert
Between the pages together.
“Mark the date with a pencil, love”




Cecelia Durcan
























ENGLISH TEACHER’S LAMENT 


The New Yorker called this morning.


They say
My stanzas stand,
Emaciated.
Made of words that waste away.


But be honest.
Who still reads
Contemporary poetry?


A search history of synonyms, similes, and
Spoken-word syllables: all a ceaseless spew.
The dictionary’s
‘S’ section, stolen.
Thus, I strike back— ‘academic dishonesty.’


‘My sin, my soul’
The tongue taps its tip on the back of my teeth
Stumbling down stairs,
‘Lo-lee-ta.’
But why stop there—
Such simplicity?
Showcase your skill, savor the spotlight.
Shameless self-indulgence? No,
They salute the excessive.


Fools pretend to be Shakespeare.
So they’ve dropped sonnets, ditched meter.
In lieu, the modern poet asks:
‘How many
Aching-archaic-adverbs
Can I squeeze?’
In a single stanza
Of a poem about a love, never had.
In this consonance epidemic,
I stand alone.
And while Hemingway called it concision,
I say it’s sobriety.


Amelia Johnson-Pellegri


































































One day, I will kick my feet 


and clench my fists 
but I will not start.
Like the 2006 Hyundai Sonata
that my mother calls Bella,
beautiful, I will wait until 
the air is thick with cold 
to stall—for my engine to blow
in the middle of February 
during a storm on 476, 
no blankets or gloves
to protect from the bite 
of the piling snow 
on my windshield. 
I will watch it cover
and clump until I 
can’t make out the 
mile markers anymore.
I will turn and turn
my key, the one with 
my mother’s St. Christopher
keychain, but there will be nothing—
only enough power 
for a call to my family, 
an apology, 
and a tow on the way. 




Lexie Slotterbeck 




















Greta and Henry 


We were talking about celebrity crushes we had when we were younger. I said River Phoenix, because he was the first person I ever masturbated to. Henry asked me if I thought it was weird to masturbate over someone who was dead, and I said that I hadn’t really thought about it like that before. And it was true, it had never crossed my mind. 
He said his was Greta Müller. I said, Greta who? He said, Greta Müller. He said she was the queen of German cinema and also the first person he ever masturbated to. I googled her as I put my feet in his lap, digging them into his folded legs. The pictures loaded on my phone screen.
She’s old, I said. She’s, like, ninety years old. 
So? He said. At least she’s not dead. Look at when she was younger.
I guess, I said. I typed “Greta Müller young” into the search bar. A beautiful blonde woman with slightly parted lips and a beehive looked at the camera seductively. I showed Henry the phone and said, This one?
That one. I had a poster of that in high school.
You did not. 
I did. I taped to the wall in the back of my closet, behind my church clothes. I used to kiss it before I went to bed.
You sicko. 
I know. 
I thought about Greta and Henry a lot after that. I liked to imagine him pushing past dry-cleaned shirts to kiss her parted lips with tongue, wearing plaid pajama pants and smelling of mint. I thought about him daydreaming about her in math class, watching her black and white movies on weekends. I loved him more. He was a teenager once, too; he had loved people that never knew he existed; he had been around long before he had been able to grow a beard or make his own dentist appointments. 
We watched a movie of hers one night a few weeks later. The lights in the room were low and warm. We lay on opposite ends of the couch, his ankles nestled between my knee caps. When Greta came on screen an hour in, he sat up and nudged me and said, That’s her. I nodded and pretended to pay attention, but I stared at him while he watched her seduce the leading man. His eyes followed the length of her soft torso and rested upon the sharp edge of her bony clavicle. There was no envy there; it felt like a window into a private part of Henry that I would never get to see otherwise. It was a privilege to watch him from this angle; it made me love him more.  
Two months after that I was checking my email at work. I clicked on a message from the New York Times. The headline displayed: Greta Müller, Queen of German Cinema, Dead at 90. I clicked on it and read quickly. She’d had Multiple Sclerosis for the last thirty years. She died peacefully at her home in Munich with her husband. They had no children. 
I called Henry. It rang twice, then he picked up. I explained the situation, slightly out of breath. 
That’s sad, he said. I didn’t know about the M.S. 
Are you okay? I asked.
Am I okay? Of course I’m okay. He paused. Are you okay?
Yeah, I’m fine. I’m fine, I said. I thought you’d be more upset, though. 
I mean, I’m sad for her husband. It must be difficult to watch the person you love deteriorate like that. 
Yeah, I agreed. It must be.




Grace McPhee
























































Gray Converse


These beaten and broken kicks
have heard thousands of
notes, verses, and sets,
so many that the leather
had begun to deteriorate
decades before they were
passed on to me.
The laces are frayed, 
split at the ends like
the quarter-inch cables
you used to plug into your bass;
you’re lucky it didn’t explode.
You wore these on stages, 
in bars, on sidewalks and streets,
for crowds smaller and bigger
than I could ever imagine.
I’ll take them for spin after spin,
song after song, set after set, 
until I pass these dirty,
disheveled Chucks on again.




Ethan Barrows






























Abecedarian on Dahmer Street  [DU]


Across state lines, there’s a lot more
bloodshed to be found, I’m sure, but 
children– the ones big enough to drive cars and push pills–
declared that this particular crime scene was holy ground.
Every teenager in Akron has at least driven past it,
fought with a girlfriend in the passenger seat about 
getting out of the car to look around that yellow
house, slanted such that it seems it’s always sliding.
Inside, Hicks’s gold watch, a shaggy haircut, and 
Jeff’s only crime in Ohio, but all the same, a
killing place. The withered southern couple who bought it know now, 
lining the sunken yard with steel fencing, that no
matter how many coats of paint you slap on it, 
no one can remodel Dahmer Street. 
Once, a group of boys riled by rumor and Smirnoff 
placed bets on the first to find the murderer’s old hut.
Quiet early morning in early July, 
rustling left-over leaves behind the house, they 
surrounded the so-called shack, only to find
trees. Albeit a grouping of them, but still just trees, and 
under the white-hot moon, some seventeen-year-olds with
vendettas so misplaced they didn’t even know 
what they were angry about. I don’t know what they expected to find–
X-Acto knives, maybe, an exhibit of 
young bird skeletons he’d collected, or 
zip ties, if they were lucky. 






Lily Mesterhazy












Games of Victory, All Except One  [DU]


It was a scavenger hunt of the heart, 
One where teams were formed amidst the search. 


Mom and Dad found you in hikes along waterfalls 
And car rides blasting Jesse's Girl;
In last minute midnight confessions and rejected proposals. 
No longer a scavenger hunt but a game of Poker, 
They were willing to risk it all if it meant gaining each other. 


Robin and Thomas found you in athletic passion 
And naps that formed indents on mattresses; 
In the quiet of absent older sisters and the overcoming of overbearing mothers. 
Gone was the hunt replaced with Uno,
Their holes now filled with the one. 


Lily and Jack found you in holy scripture
And in an old movie’s lyrical lemonade;
In first times at cafes and matching lightsabers.
You transformed into a classic: Checkers,
Easily won and simple enough to not screw up. 


I, alone, found you in chilled damp graves
And shriveled hearts of long ago lovers whose ashes are now eternally mixed; 
In the shriveled petals of unwatered flowers and the smoke of blown out candles. 
You were murdered in a bath of blood by Clue,
When I wanted to perfectly write you out like Scrabble’s oxyphenbutazone.


And from your decaying mouth came spiders a plenty, 
Swiftly crawling up my aching spine. 
Whispering webs of potential truths: 
That you were never meant for me,
Nor I for you.




Olivia Emerick




Casual Tea   [DU]


Last night I dreamed I was running
across the ashen craters of the Western Front.
The enemy had retreated and the doctor
told me that a Body had died.

“All are buried or home for tea
but a doctor works in between.
The war is won, and I am done.
And so It is.” Somebody’s son.


I ran for hours like a Peloponnesian
through the black earth stricken
by gas, and over trenches
as wide as the Rubicon,
choked with piles of singed meat
decomposed too fast.


Until,
by the shadow of a tree,
reclined like a Caesar
in the mortar-tilled dirt,
I found the Body.


“Oh, thank God almighty,”
the pallid Body said,
“you came here to save me!”
(It was not very dead).




Neal Bold








Semele to Zeus   [DU] 


Am I wrong to want to know you?


To want the weight
of your name
on my tongue? 


Baby                 Angel
        Lover                Darling


can’t fill the ache— 
my lips longing
to curve to your 
shape, to feel
you tense in
my jaw.


You say my name like it means something. 


Let me return the favor, 
split your beauty 
into syllables
so that I can swallow
you. 


Want to see you. 
Undressed, 
façade folded neatly
at the end of my bed. 
Stripped to your bones— 
        Would they be shell,
like the mussels I 
collected in summers 
at Lake Yliki? Or 
magma, molten rock 
that melts the skin
off my fingers
as it slips from
my grasp?— 
left with no theatrics, 
no disguise, 
nothing but the heat
pooling behind 
your eyes, ready 
to devour flesh 
or nightdress. 


You have me. 


Let me feel 
I have you too.




Lexie Slotterbeck


















































When Pluto Killed the Sun


Today we saw Pluto
lose his mind in the
depths of space,
screaming words indecipherable 
from millions of miles away.
He screamed at the Sun,
and fury overtook him
when that great ball of fire
ignored him, a cold, impotent dwarf.


So Pluto howled loud
so all could hear,
FUCK THIS!
and flew straight at the
Sun, breaking all the barriers of 
sound, time, and space.
The Sun didn’t even get a chance
to turn around;
by the time he heard Pluto coming,
his name had been changed to
Supernova.


It was a strange day.
They say Pluto’s not 
a planet anymore,
did you hear?






Ethan Barrows










Questions for My Grandmother After the Invasion         [DU]


Remember when you said, 
you never want to live 
through a war? 


What if there’s already 
been an invasion? What 
if I didn’t run away?
What if I stayed, 
paralyzed, while they
seized, took me
and my people
and my clothes?


Am I complicit?


How did you 
know when 
to escape? 


Did you buy a ticket
overseas before 
or after the first 
bomb dropped? 
Did you wait 
to see if they 
were bluffing
before you 
uprooted?


How do you ask 
for shelter— 
what if they 
don’t want 
to let you in?


What if they see you
covered in blood
and think you 
drew it? 
Regardless 
of the source
or your tears 
it is your fault 
it is yours. 


If I cannot flee, 
is that consent? 


And if I am able
to flee, after all
that I’ve seen, 
how do I go back
to before?


To before the bombs
and the freeze and 
the way that it burns  
your neck and the blood
the way it clings to your clothes
and your skin that you can’t 
take off, but you keep trying
you’re trying, but even when 
you’re clean you swear that 
you can still see it crusted, 
now brown, under your finger-
nails and what if you were
never really clean to start with? 


Are there pills 
for the tremors? 
Will they help me
sleep? 


How do you sleep?






Lexie Slotterbeck












The Totalitarian Tortoise        [DU]


(Chorus enters)
With rue the heart is laden
A divine retelling of atrocities committed
Now commences


He harbored hatred 
Inwardly—in his innards 
Establishing Empire
Illegitimately
Through Treacherous Trials


That Galapagos!
Connived and Canoodled
(Indeed, so sensual a sin)
The previous powerful possessor 


~Slow and steady 
Wins the race~


Release was requested
And refused 
so that "Testudinidae of the order Testudines"
Hatched a hellish coup


Late one evenin'
The old beloved king
he was a'sleeping


When a noise was blasted, oh so near
Indeed, indeed it broke his ear
(You see, he was a praying mantis)


Painful, horrid it was 
But not as illicit as 
The finale 


The terrapin 
Let loose
A formidable flatulence 


And the lasting line of Mantis
Fell
“Acute asphyxiation,” 
The coroner did decree
“Was the means of slaughter”


Yet no one knew
Who done did it 


Took the throne 
Did the doer of the deed 
Repressing the residents of the world
While relishing prickly pear cacti


Deaf to the anguished cries
As he slept 
Sixteen hours of the day!


And the other eight
He spent trying to get from his bed to his toilet
An oxygen mask affixed to his face
So as to not meet an early end 
Brought on by the self


Much suffering set forth
In the coming decades
The rights of the islanders infringed upon....
Formulated in fear
Not consensus
Was his rule


Stalin paled in comparison
Mussolini would have blushed 
Big Brother, synonym in a thesaurus 
For a twisted, totalitarian, flatulent tortoise!


(Chorus Exits)
                                                        Tommy Milutin






Personification of Abandoned Broccoli    


I am in the middle of the hall
Alienated from by brethren 
By the cruel fates
Many have passed 
Without a glance 


I just want to be seen 
And disposed of by loving hands 
At least then I will have been held


Help




Tommy Milutin










































Papa Playing Monopoly In The Kitchen         [DU]


He always loved being the boat,
my older brother, the dog, but I, the watcher,
Just tall enough to see who’s winning.


I sit there with apple-sliced daydreams
of owning both the Boardwalk 
and Park Place, getting out of jail free,
and pulling an “Advance to GO” card.


Instead, I get sent directly to jail,
the ‘den’ as Nona calls it,
where dusty waxen hour and minute hands
marked ‘Crayola’ spin round and round
as I try and make the most 
Of some half-filled-outside-the-lines Pinocchio coloring book.






Joey Pelgro






































Liar                      [DU] [ES]


I call my dad
“If you’re hearing me it means
I couldn’t get to the phone.
Sorry, leave a message and 
I’ll get back to you 
soon.”


It’s almost father’s day.


You lie 
like a surfaced fish, 
mouth gapped open, jaw hanging low. 
You were so pale 
and clammy. Limp drooping 
wrist.


My floppy rubber doll. 


I died alone. Early 
in the morning, before the sun
could rise or set. I stretch
you, so you lie 
on your back. Has it stopped 
hurting? You can 
come home. I’m not 
angry anymore. 


Resentment seemed to have loosened 
its leash. Still no answer. 
No new messages just a hollow clatter. 
Your bones rot somewhere 
in the earth. But, you’re not there.
You’re not there. 


Remember in December when you lied
every time I’d call you. You left
Your phone at home again. I can’t reach 
You. It was always a hassle trying
to reach you. I’m tired 
of waiting for you. Do you hear me? Call 
me when you get this. Call me back
please. 


I’ll get back to you. I’ll get back to you. I’ll get back – 
Sorry. I couldn’t - get back to you – back to you. You. Leave
a message and I’ll get back– I’ll get back to you. I’ll get back to you. I’ll get back to you. I’ll get back to you soon.






Liar.










Vincent Flannery 










































Stains    [DU]


The old house won’t sell,
It’s been up for ages.
Dozens of viewers,
A pushy agent,
No offers.
I think it’s because of the stains.
There are stains everywhere in that house;
In all the rooms on the walls, the floor,
Even the curtains are full of them. 
I see them most on your old chair,
Huge blots of sadness sunken into the leather,
No one wants to sit on sadness, 
It smells.
Mum says she doesn’t know what I’m talking about,
But she does.
I’ve seen her staring at them before 
on the photo frames in the corridor as you come in the front door. 
They’re bad there as well, 
Almost so bad that you can’t look at the photographed faces for too long 
Or your eyes will start to sting.
We’ve tried a few different cleaners, 
But even after all the scrubbing and steaming;
You’re still there.
I think you always will be. 


You’ve stained my life as well,
In a much bigger way than if it were just
With tea or tears,
I hope you know that. 
A stain so big it’s burnt through my fabric,
Like bleach through clothes catching the skin,
Drills through teeth touching the nerve - 
I always feel you.
In big moments,
I feel sick
Because you’re missing them.
In small moments, I think about the big moments you’ll miss. 
So many moments you’ve missed and will miss. 
Sometimes I feel consumed by it,
Like you’ve eaten me and taken me with you,
Wherever you went.
I worry sometimes that the stain will wash away,
That you’ll come out in sneezes or something,
And I won’t be able to remember you as clearly.
Maybe that’s inevitable.
For now though, the stains are stuck 
To the curtains of our old house 
And the insides of my eyelids as I sleep.






Millie Stock






















































Any bar, anywhere, any time       [DU]


When the crowd moved forward, 
a jungle of enraged animals swallowed 
my over-conscious body. 


Beer bottles clattered and clanged, 
while a Babel tower of voices weaved 
forging a parachute of sounds. 


The floor was sticky, as were the sweat
drops sliding from the barman’s forehead,
like rain on filthy windows in the attic. 


Flashes of muted TVs flustered
the claustrophobic hovel I was dragged into,
disorienting my symmetrical thought. 


I smelled mediocre lives passing by, 
and locked eyes with foggy minds that danced
with faint fuzzy smiles.  


I should have gulped down acid, 
like these beasts with foaming grins 
but instead I breathed in 


and fenced myself in a bubble. 
I was invisible in a room of 
invisibles.




Valentina Serri
















Waning    [DU]


Sometimes I eat candle wax
because the soft melt clogs my throat,
lines the sides of my esophagus like drainpipe leaves,
so I am left sputtering.


I dip each finger pad into the hot silken liquid,
little helmets on calloused skin that trace my cheeks,
as you ask again, Do you love me?






I suck my fingers clean.






Megan Cresitello














































Back Burner      [DU]


You basked in the orange glow,
pretending it was a Hawaiian sunset,
grinning or grimacing, baring your teeth 
as sparking flames hacked away at your nerve endings.


You never minded that back left stove grate 
that ticked, ticked, ticked to life
        because you knew I needed         
the one up front.                        Did I really?


I grew so comfortable in that space, 
up front,
I just couldn’t give it up.


You enveloped me in a hug
and my arm reached behind you to turn up 
the burner’s dial: 
400 degrees.
You writhed, feeling its heat, and I watched and sobbed.


I could have taken a step closer, 
let the tears extinguish,
pulled at your charred remains and
dusted away the ashes. 
I’m so sorry. I’m so sorry.


Instead, I took a step back and watched you
like you were a Hawaiian sunset,
and this is my apology.






Megan Cresitello
________________
On mortality     [DU]


I sit here, embracing that special strain
Of mortality late at night,
Like catching a falling knife.
But suddenly it was you
that slipped through and slit my fingers.


And now I resort to grasping, reaching
With marled and infected hands
For the rope of reality to pull me out
Of this involuntary stream of consciousness.
I was fine to stew in death
And marinate in imagined emotion for the future.


But memories,
Memories once again bring me intimate with collapse
And I float away like a loose balloon
Into the vast, unending horizon
Of my discontent.




Sarah Glasfeld


































59th Street [HB] [CD] [ES]    by Holly Branco
hi Paul, Art,
that was scary.         mirror fog
square                            shadow                     blear
 who ?
grey dark                                  light                                          shapes
                                what
        took                                      the                                          place


                    of                                                                                        where 


        someone i thought                        should have been
      
                            scratched                                shadows
                             obsidian                                  sockets


        they                                                                                    looked        
        


           wrong                                            alien                                        foreign
          dead                                        no,         not                                 dead


        
                   just                                                                     things


                                        something scribbled
                                                itself


                                         toy                                         story
                                        but                        just
                                                    one
                            toy                                                    and
                           one                                                  mirror.


                          fog                                                      ink
                              ink                                                      thing
                         thing                                                        i
                                                        
Now,                        59th Street.                                Feel Groovy.                             feel


                                 My Poor Mother [DU]


In a past life, she was a dancer. Even the way she stood in long lines was poised and elegant. And no part of her was rigid. Just soft, warm, and very alive. She was tall and long-limbed and like some sort of beautiful freak. But what separated her from the rest—what made my mother my mother—was how she conflated that poise with power and the picturesque. It was her showstopping act, it’s what made her complete.
She told me about a place that truly felt like a home, wherein every room were erected mirrors instead of walls. And there was a beauty to it: for those mirrors made it impossible for a dancer to escape herself. She explained that in a studio, you had to make peace with you and your whole being—that was every good dancer’s secret. Learned technique and fundamentals: they were mere frivolities! What mattered most was the understanding that she performed for something even greater than the audience and its shiny applause.
So, when my mother danced, she danced for everyone, but especially for herself. She took pride in the ways her feet etched their patterns into the wooden floors. The ways her ears listened only for the accompaniment, her most dynamic of dance partners, in whichever way it pleased. The ways her mind came together with body to deliver confidence, intentionality. And with elongated arms and legs, she stretched to the corners at which each mirror met. She could hold up the ceiling if you asked her to. 
It was those days she missed the most; the days she leapt with no intention of ever landing. She longed for the place where she could be free again. She absolutely yearned for it. Because then and there, her body was no instrument, nobody ever played her, she assured me. She was in control. It was all she ever knew, dancing through life with an outstretched hand. Take my lead, it beckoned.
            Before she was my mother, she was his partner. And before that, a whole woman. A whole woman I’ve never met yet still find myself missing. That would twirl to the ends of the earth if the music only asked her to. Before the one who first told her the world was her stage. Before he scoffed at her ability to dance out of every mess he made.
            It was after the first time he raped her that she lost her ability to dance. It was how she lost her legs and how he took them over and over and over again until she didn’t even want them. She laid there, for hoursdaysyears, simply used and discarded. With bleak stoicism, she’d tell me that even in his absence his weight still pinned her legs to the bed they shared. How could they betray me like that? she wondered, thinking of all the places they had taken her before. But the more it happened, the more it made sense: If they weren’t strong enough to stay closed, then how would they ever dance me out of this life?
            It only got worse once he took her arms, for she no longer embraced the world. His grip was always the tightest on her. On two arms that carried only pure intentions and beautiful stories, arms so full of life they even took their own breaths: with each contraction, an inhale. Each extension, an exhale. But before long, he had cut her long, long arms so short. Without wings, she could not fly. And he knew damn well that the weight of carrying me, too, kept her heavy and grounded.
            As I grew, she grew. What was left of her swelled up like a balloon and for the most part she liked it; perhaps if she got big enough, she would float up and out a window never to look down on this wretched home again. In her pregnancy, I cherished the many restless nights we shared, they were an excuse for her to dream out loud. She’d tell me, If he returned my legs I would not run, but leap. If he returned my arms, I would not fight, but fly. That was where her power lied, in her ability to move and shake, but that’s also why his tactics were so effective. Oh, how I can only wish to know my mother as well as my father does!
            Truly, all I ever knew of him was what I heard from inside her. His words only pierced; with venom that first muddied her bloodstream then mine. I imagined absolutely no dancer able to move to his arrhythmic accusations. And because his volume, alone, was paralyzing enough, these talks of theirs soon became one-way conversations with only the mere guise of exchange: an occasion that would leave me wondering where my poor mother had gone. All night, she talked. But here and now and forever, she was rendered speechless.
            Before long, only the bits and pieces of her remained, giving little semblance to her past self. It was unfair of her to hate the parts that had once made her whole, so she envied them instead, for they had a terrible habit of leaving and never looking back. Take her neck, for example. He called it sexy, so she always hung jewels from it. This was where she kept safe her voice—the music that I danced to. And out of that vase bloomed his favorite target, her beautiful mind. Until he starved it from all sun and water. 
For a while, just two lips hung lifelessly. Two chapped and bloodied fixtures on a blank and tired face. But when they shriveled up as quickly as they withered away, she felt no need to frown like so many times before. 
Why listen, if life’s melody only reminds me of how I cannot dance to it? she then thought before giving up her ears. 
            The only power she now yielded was a similar kind to his; she simply willed the rest of herself away until I was all she had left. It wasn’t worth it; she would’ve told me if she could. Because even if she could leap and she could fly and she could make it to those mirrored rooms just once more, reflected back at her would be nothing. Because with his help, she had done the impossible, she lost the only thing worth dancing for. 


















                                 Trial By Poison [DU]


I am not a stupid man. I may be referred to as such, given the years spent as a peasant, a lowly stonemason’s apprentice, and criminal, but what I lacked in classical training, I made up for in the unorthodox and unethical.


Theft was always my crime of choice, ever since I was a boy. I had to, you see, to survive; food was scarce in my home, so we needed to take what we could get, when we could get it. Every crusty slice of bread and half-rotten apple left alone was a mouth unfed. When I grew, I realized that stealing the odd crumb or two was not a permanent solution; stealing and selling things, however, could buy lots of food. Money would fix all of my problems, cure all of my ills. So I decided to rob the Benedictine monastery.


The Abbey was a familiar place to me; I had been there many a time. My brother Cedric was a monk there, before the Plague took him to the Lord. His very grave was there, in the central courtyard, a simple, plain tombstone planted firmly in the ground, a cross carved into it, in the shade of a willow for all eternity next to other fallen brothers. I had fashioned the headstone myself. His is not the way in which I want to die, but I hope to one day forever rest in such a beautiful place as he. Anyways, this monastery was a barren place, empty, just as all monasteries should be. There was, however, the exception of the abbot’s quarters. In his room, rather than a plain bed with white sheets, there stands a glorious four poster bed with red silk curtains, tied to the posts with golden ropes. I remember it as if it was only a fortnight ago; after Cedric’s burial, my poor mother was inconsolable, so much so that she could barely stand and felt faint. The abbot, whom she had known very well, pulled her and I into his room and sat her down on the bed so she could calm down in peace and privacy. He then quickly left us alone. I remember seeing the bed and being blinded by rage. Cedric would always write home about life at the monastery, how humble it was. Not unlike how we lived the early parts of our lives, but with more to eat, at least. He was in love with monastic life, every aspect of it; the prayer, the reflection, the work, the chores. I remember the first letter he wrote to us. 


Dearest mother and brother,


I pray this letter finds the pair of you happy and healthy. I assure you I am fine, mother, and that I try my very best every day to become the next saint in the canon. This life suits me well, better than smithing ever did. The monks have embraced me with open and inviting arms, and I have found a sense of peace and security among those like myself. We are all equals here, and we treat each other as such. Cursed be any man who breaks the sacred vow of monastic equality! Visit soon.


Fare thee as well as I fare,
Cedric


The equality of all monks in the monastery meant the world to Cedric. Seeing those extravagant and expensive curtains filled me with a burning hatred for the abbot. And so I waited. I waited for years and years, waiting for the Lord to strike the sinful abbot down, to smite him where he stood and make true Cedric’s false perception about the monastery. That day never came. Solstice after solstice passed, and the abbot continued to draw breath from his kingly bed. Five years of waiting later, my dear mother took her final breath on a warm Spring day in our home. I had nothing to do except mourn. It was then that I began to form my plan. 


The monastery was eighteen miles from my home. It was a simple strategy, really. From my correspondence with my brother all those years ago, I knew when the monks retreated to the chapel for prayer. Nighttime prayer, though it would grant me the cloak of darkness, would be too precarious, as there are always monks who are too aged or infirmed to get out of bed and walk to the chapel; they would surely hear me if I were to be opening doors and such. Movement in the courtyard during the day, however, would be of no consequence. I therefore planned to visit my brother’s grave during sext, when the Sun is at its peak in the sky, and it was then that I would make for the abbot’s chambers and take from him his undeserved gift from the Pope, he claimed once. Before I could make that journey, though, I needed a horse. Luckily, the man who lives next-door had one, a taupe, slow old mare that he no longer rode. When the day came to execute my plan, I rose hours before even the farmers, saddled his horse, and rode into the darkness. 


When I reached the monastery, the last of the monks were walking in silent formation to the chapel. I had picked the perfect time to enter. I passed the armed guards supplied by the local lord and knelt in front of Cedric. The willow cast his headstone in a great shade, which made the grass pleasantly cool on my knees. I traced the simple cross in the stone with my finger. Deep in thought and remembrance, I returned to reality when the clock tower bells rang out. Upon the twelfth, I rose from Cedric’s resting place and made my way to the abbot’s room, just across the courtyard. I put my ear to the heavy oak door. No sound came from inside. I slowly pushed it ajar and peeked inside.


The room had not changed in five years. The bed hadn’t moved even an inch, and those curtains hung there, mocking me. Moving inside, I quietly shut the door behind me, taking my knife from my side. I jumped onto the bed with my dirty boots, soiling the  pristine white sheets, and slashed at the ropes holding the curtains. In seconds, the kingly drapes fell into my arms, light as air. To have accomplished my goal, to have avenged Cedric; the feeling was incomparable. 


The clinking of chain mail. Whispers behind the door. The drawing of a sword. I didn’t recall there being guards at the monastery last time, truth be told. The door slammed open and the two armed guards, followed by the abbot, barged in and commanded me to surrender, thief, so that no harm would come to me. Numb, I stepped off the bed and let the silk curtains drain from my hands. They ordered me to drop my knife; I had forgotten about it. I dropped it, and they advanced, forcing me to my knees. One tied my hands behind my back while the other pulled a grain sack over my head. As the burlap covered my eyes, the last thing I remember seeing was the abbot’s face, filled with horror and disappointment. The guard tying my hands bashed my head with his hilt, and I fell into a deep sleep.
______________________________________________________________________


I awoke in a moving cart, tied and bleeding, blind except for the faint light shining through the bag on my head. I asked the driver, whoever that may have been, where they were taking me, and why I was blinded. They responded with their fist to my face, and once again the darkness of deep sleep embraced me.
______________________________________________________________________


I awoke next in a cell, hands unbound, face uncovered. The cell was quite small, with a simple bed of straw, a thin blanket, and a hole in the corner meant for the less clean actions of everyday life. The floor, walls, and ceiling were made of plain cobblestone, and the thick iron bars showed no sign of yielding, nor did the door made of the same bars and locked with a ghastly padlock. Across the way from my cell was a lone lit candle mounted on the wall. Given the cold and gloomy nature of my surroundings, I surmised that I had been taken to a dungeon of some sort. I began to yell, just to get somebody’s attention. After a few moments of silence, heavy footsteps sounded above me, and I heard as that person slowly trudged across the floor and opened a heavy door, making his way down the spiral staircase to my left. The man who then stood in front of me was quite the sight; a hulking, muscular man with angry brows and a nasty sneer. He looked down at me with contempt, silently asking me why I had disturbed him. I asked him where they had taken me, and what for. A petty attempted theft shouldn’t mean kidnapping. He grunted, spit, and slowly climbed the stairs, once again leaving me with my thoughts. I sat, my back to the cool stone wall, and despaired. How disappointed Cedric would be in me, and in the abbot as well; regret encased my entire being.


In the hours following my silent encounter with the brute, I entertained myself by examining my own body. I held my hands up to my face, and was presented with the hands of a laborer: permanent dirt resided underneath my fingernails, my knuckles forever bruised from dropping many a stone on them. I ran them through my dark straw-like hair, unwashed for weeks, long enough to cover my eyes if I allowed it to do so. As I moved my hands over my face, I could feel the dark bags sullying my hazel eyes and my crooked nose. My teeth were the only thing that belonged in high society. Gabriel, my stonemason mentor, had taught me how to maintain them with a simple mixture of sage leaves and charcoal, rinsed out with water. I smiled at the memory of Gabriel, the man who had taught me to read and write. He was a good man, a better man than his apprentice. I had failed him.


I dozed off. When I awoke, there stood in front of me a group of men. The frontmost was Lord Jaquet Beaumont, a righteous man of French origin. He stood tall, draped in fine maroon robes, making sure to keep distance from the caged animal. The candle behind him placed a shining halo upon his head. Flanking him were four of his knights, clothed in standard chain mail and bearing the Beaumont crest, a crimson lion over a golden fleur de lis. Fine steel swords sat threateningly in their scabbards, begging to be drawn. At the bottom of the stairs stood the brute, unblinking. One of the knights handed Beaumont a scroll, and he read it aloud. 


On this twentieth day of June in the one-thousand five-hundred and seventy-eighth year of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, you, Everard William Payne, for thievery, trespassing, and the attempted assassination of Abbot Richardis, are hereby sentenced to death by hanging.


I collapsed in dismay. Assassination of a church official was a grave offense, and though it was never my intention and my blade was never bloodied, I was powerless to defend myself. They found me on his bed with a knife. I expected him to walk away then, until he gathered me for my execution, but Beaumont remained. He spoke once again, giving me an alternative option.


You could, instead, agree to be an integral part of a trial. We require a subject to test the effectiveness of the bezoar against the deadly poison aconite. If you should agree, we will use your body as a gateway to greater medicine, for the better of the common people. In the event of your survival, you will be released, free to do as you please and cleared of all charges.


The illusion of choice. If I refused, I would be the test subject all the same, so I agreed. Better a slim chance of life than certain death.
______________________________________________________________________


I had always been slender, but Beaumont wanted me thin and vulnerable to the aconite’s effects. Thus, he restricted my meals to one piece of bread and a goblet of water each day. A month I waited in my cell for the aconite to test me.


As that day came creeping close and closer, I tried not to think about what would happen should I survive the trial. I would have the chance to try stonemasonry again, find a woman, maybe, and settle down in the city. Have a few kids, leave something behind on this Earth worth living for, a legacy. Before any of that, though, I first had to endure natural torture worse than hanging.


My body was decrepit. My ribs bulged out of my chest, so much so that I could place my skeletal hands between them. I was stunningly weak, more so than a newborn lamb, and with legs half as thick. I was awoken by the sound of heavy footfalls on the stairs.


The four knights and the brute, followed by Beaumont and a man I had never seen before, a small, squirrelly man with no hair on his head and spectacles sitting on his nose, which rested atop a gray goatee like the Italians wore. Beaumont introduced him as Doctor Bertoli, the man who would conduct the experiment.


With that introduction, Bertoli quickly beckoned me to the bars and examined me. He checked my eyes, the inside of my mouth, and glanced at my ribs, after which he declared in his nasally, broken English that I was fit for testing. From his bag, he pulled aconite roots and a mortar and pestle, grinding them up in front of me. When ground to completion, the roots were placed in a goblet of water and stirred. It was then handed to me.


I started at the concoction for quite some time. I didn’t know what it would do to me, only that I would likely die from it. I looked up from the cup to see the expectant stare of the seven men in front of me. The cup in my hands, I prayed before drinking it to completion. Then, we waited.


They didn’t have to wait long for the poison to take effect. Mere hours later, I felt something was amiss within me. I became aware of my heart beating quickly, so quickly that it began to ache terribly. My face and hands lost all feeling. My brain began to pound. I felt my blood thicken. Sweat appeared on every inch of flesh. My head felt light, and I felt faint often. I tried to pray, pray that I would make it through the night and see the morning sky as a free man again. There were intense periods of both heat and cold, yet the sweat persisted through both of them. Very quickly after the poison took effect, I stripped what little rags I wore as clothes from my body and threw myself to the cool ground, trying to rid myself of this hellish heat. After a pitiful second of relief, the stone floor became molten, and I was engulfed in an internal blaze that must have rivaled Hell itself. The whole time, Bertoli sat on a wooden stool just outside the cell while Beaumont paced back and forth in the hallway, stopping briefly whenever a cry left my mouth before carrying on. 


As the night progressed, I fell further and further into delirium. I began to see visions. A banquet table full of the finest of food and drink that stood in front of me. On it were things eaten only by royalty, cuisine from far-off lands, and each bite and sip caused me more and more agony in my stomach, yet I couldn’t stop. I saw Cedric walk from me, dressed in his robes, toward a doorway of light; with every step I ran toward him, he got farther and farther away. I ran for so long that my limbs ached and stiffened, and I fainted a number of times. I was shown a corpse, a skinny brown haired man lying dead. His back was to me, but from where I was standing, I could see hundreds of bugs crawling on his skin, and that he was in a pool of his own blood. Stepping closer, the corpse rolled over and stared at me. There was blood spewing from every hole in my corpse’s face, and the bugs were already consuming my flesh. I vomited, over and over, until the visions went away and I was left once again on the rough stone floor. I cried out to my captors. 


Rather would I die now than live another moment like this. Help me, or I will surely die!


Bertoli calmly set down his quill and rose from his stool, reached into his pack and pulled from it the bezoar, my supposed salvation. A small and smooth beige stone, it looked wholly insignificant and indecipherable from any other rock that sat upon on the Earth. Taking too a small sharp blade from his pack, Bertoli shaved off flakes of the bezoar into a goblet of wine that he had sent for. He stirred it with the knife, and after letting it settle for a brief minute, gave it to me to drink.


I drank. It tasted earthy, like I was drinking from an unclean well. After minutes of relative peace, I was struck by horrible sickness once again. My muscles began to rapidly expand and contract, my eyes rolled up and down again and again, and I gasped for air as if my lungs had collapsed. The last thing I recall before I feel into deep, fitful sleep was the watchful gazes of Bertoli and Beaumont, and between them the flicker of candlelight.
______________________________________________________________________ 


My nightmares were tinged in the purple of the aconite flower. The indigo fog around me sat thick upon the air, closing my throat and blinding me, but as the effects of the bezoar reached out to the end of my limbs, I felt it thin. The thickness subsided, the poison had run its course on my body. I slowly cracked open my eyes and  I awoke on the stone floor once again, but clothed. Tentatively, I sat up and took inventory of my body. No longer did my face and limbs feel numb, no longer did my head, stomach, or heart ache, and no longer was there a perpetual sweat on my skin. Bertoli and Beumont were nowhere to be found, and the door to my cell was unlocked and open. On terribly shaky legs, I stood and limped out into the hall. The only way to go was up the stairs.


At the top, there was the Hall of the estate. A grandiose room, decorated with beautifully crafted wooden furniture and metal can There sat Beaumont, flanked again by two of his men, who at the sight of me placed their hands on their hilts. Beaumont waved them off.


Everard William Payne, I hereby resolve you of any crimes you have committed. You are free to do as you like, as it seems God has given you a second chance. Leave, and may you never see another cell as long as you live.


He gestured to a small bag on the table next to him. I shuffled to it, grabbed the strangely heavy package, and was escorted to the front doors. They slammed closed behind me.


Opening the bag, I found a small yet considerable sum of gold coins. In any other circumstance, I would have thanked God for this incredible boon. I dropped the bag in disgust and walked away from Beaumont’s estate, toward the sunrise, where I knew my home to be.


Was it luck? Was it a gift from God? I know not, but I know that I wish I had perished in that dark cell. I would have drank all the poison in the world just to die, to be free of responsibility. Free of difficulty. 


Cedric would laugh at me, tell me that each day on Earth is a chance to prove myself worthy of Heaven. 


Heaven. As if I would ever reach there.


After a day of nonstop travel, I found my home burnt to cinders. Perhaps neighbors did it, perhaps God himself during a vicious storm. I will never know. From nothing I came, and to even less I returned, a criminal who survived torture stronger than God. I can only hope that my suffering was worthwhile for others.












































 Jumping Someone Else’s Train: An Anarchist Cheerleader Talks Alt Music [DU]


Music is one of the first forms of individuality we have. 


Joanne Hoban’s musical track record is about as individual and eclectic as it gets. Known for singing Drake songs to annoy her husband and dancing to Dua Lipa while driving, it’s hard to believe she used to listen to a very different kind of music. 


I ask, “What are the five songs you’d have on the soundtrack to your life?”


Joanne immediately says “Jumping Someone Else's Train” by The Cure. After some thought, she also lists “Con te partiro” by Andrea Bocelli, “Mr. Sun” (the children’s song),''Your Love” by The Outfield, and “I Hope You Dance” by Lee Ann Womack. 


When asked how she came by music as a method of communication, Joanne says she never really thought about it. She used to go to concerts with her older brother, Jay. He took her to see The Hooters and Michael Jackson—her first big introductions to music. 


Joanne’s mother loved the classics—the Beatles, Carly Simon. Her brother loved rock—Rush and The Hooters. 


To me, she will always be connected to the alternative music of the 1980s. Her name is synonymous with bands like Blondie, Dead Milkmen, and​​ The Cure.


So, where did the alternative streak come from?
Joanne got into alternative music at fourteen because of a guy. 


For anyone who knows her, this is a shock. This is a woman who would never do anything for a guy. But, when you’re fourteen, you listen to the kind of music your crush likes so you have something to talk to him about. 


The music came about after meeting him in a dance club for fourteen year-olds and older. The music there was the poppy-clubby mix—not exactly their speed. They would talk on the phone, and “and sit outside the house on 15th street with [her] boombox, and listen to U2 or The Cure.” 


Joanne says, “I think by then I definitely knew who those bands were, but I think I definitely was exposed to more because of him. And he probably pushed me further into the alternative.” 


Her music, initially a way that she tried to connect with her crush, became a huge part of her personality and personal experiences. Because of where she grew up—Mapleshade, New Jersey—Joanne had a fascination with being different. 


It won’t take you long / To learn the new smile / You have to adapt or you’ll be out of style / It’s always the same / You’re jumping someone else’s train  (The Cure 0:56-1:06).


Joanne says, “I was such a snotty bitch. It was—in my mind—so pedestrian and beneath me that I really didn't want to like what everybody else liked. So there was something wildly appealing about being different than everybody else and not conforming.” 


While Joanne considered herself “quite the vigilante,” looking back, she really wasn’t. She calls her younger self “the anarchist, alternative music cheerleader who is in the National Honors Society. Not exactly the problem child.” But, the appeal is “thinking you’re not conforming.” 


Don’t say what you mean / You might spoil your face / If you walk in the crowd / You won’t leave any trace / It’s always the same / You’re jumping someone else’s train (The Cure 0:37-0:48).


It’s no surprise that as a teenager she wanted to avoid conforming to the rules. Joanne’s anti-conformity used to manifest in her physical appearance. She used to have really short, curly hair. She had dyed the tendril that curved under her chin blonde. She wore a lot of black, and a distinct denim jacket completely covered in safety pins and other pins she liked. 


Joanne’s mom didn’t really mind. While teenage Joanne may have dressed a bit like an over-sized bat, she still brought home good grades, was the President of New Jersey DECA, and an athlete. 


Joanne doesn’t look alternative anymore. She is wearing a pale pink sleeveless blouse, black dress pants, and dark brown ballet flats. Her red hair is pulled back in a low ponytail. She laughs—sea green eyes crinkled—as she pushes her reading glasses onto her head—a familiar action. She has just shown me a photo of her high school haircut as we chat at a high top table in Cityworks. 


The alternative music of the 1980s still has a special place in her heart, but Joanne acknowledges that she doesn’t listen to it as much anymore. She considers it “just a change in situation.” As you get older, “you move away from it a little bit,” even though she can still rap the entirety of “Rapture.” 
The self-professed renegade found herself thinking about law school in her third year of college. A job that seems perfect for the fast-talking redhead sitting in front of me, Joanne had never really thought about being a lawyer before joining the Trial Team at Franklin Pierce University in New Hampshire. 


She later attended Suffolk Law School in Boston, Massachusetts. Joanne is a practicing medical malpractice attorney for Morrison Mahoney, heading the Worcester branch. 


Joanne says, “for somebody who was supposed to be such a renegade, I'm kind of a rules person, so the confining nature of things is probably good for me.” She likes the code of conduct and formulaic process of law. 


While Joanne let her blonde streak grow out during college and law school, she never lost connection with the music she loved as a teen. She raised her daughter to identify The Smiths and Blondie by ear by age eight. She kept the pins she used to wear on her safety pin jacket, but now they decorate her blazers instead. 


Well, some of them do. Joanne gave some pins to her daughter to put on her own jacket. 


My mom made sure to teach me her alternative music. 


We’ve seen Blondie and Elvis Costello, Echo and the Bunnymen, and the Violent Femmes together. Some of my best memories with my mom are jamming to The Cure in the middle of our kitchen, yelling the words to “Seven Seas” in the Orpheum, and dancing with her to “Dreaming” at a Blondie concert—all with my jacket on. 












Works Cited


Hoban, Joanne. Personal interview. 20 October 2021. 
The Cure. “Jumping Someone Else’s Train.” Boys Don’t Cry. Fiction Records, 1979. Vinyl, 
Digital.
                                         First Blood  [DU]


        Three days after her mom died, Katie got her period in the slimy stall of her local public pool, in which she was sitting on the toilet with her one-piece bathing suit pulled all the way down, warm blood on her fingers and cold air brushing over the knobs of her spine, poking out severely because of her hunched-over position, and a part of Katie found it funny, that she’d be getting her period for the first time only days after a quick colon cancer stole her mother, but that part huddled deep within Katie, maybe somewhere below her third rib down, right next to the part of her that was too sad to be out at the pool in July with her friends who had living mothers and hadn’t bled yet, but Katie pushed those parts down with grim determination, so she was at the pool and sitting unlaughing on the toilet, no matter how sad she was or how hilarious she found the period-right-after-mom’s-death occurrence, but even though she wasn’t laughing, no matter how bad she wanted to, Katie was still shaking because her whole upper torso was damp and exposed and her bare feet were resting lightly on the cool tile beneath her, and also because she didn’t have a tampon and she didn’t know what to do, and even if she did have a tampon she would have no idea how to use it, because she bet the period talk was being planned for yesterday, or the day before, or any of the days in the week since her mother’s passing, because that would be just Katie’s luck, to have a dying mother who planned on teaching her about tampons just twenty-four to forty-eight hours too late, and whose own death came just before the beginning of the period, not allowing enough time for a benign aunt or a bumbling father to wonder “Oh, shit! Has anybody talked to Katie about..?” before sympathetically taking her aside and embarrassing them both, and although Katie hoped that maybe, her mom, like a character in a movie, made videos before she died for each monumental moment in Katie’s life that she knew she was going to miss, so that Katie could watch, crying, on prom night, or the day before her wedding, or when she had her first child, or when she was sitting in a slimy public bathroom stall with blood running between her thighs and no idea what the fuck to do, her mother makeup-less but strikingly beautiful on the screen, Katie knew that this wasn’t the case, because her mom was not pretty while she died, and instead sported sunken cheeks and dark circles under her eyes and a quick, mean tongue and a surprisingly sharp grip for a woman going through chemo, with brittle, malnourished nails barely holding onto pale skin, lacking a perfect high ponytail and any sort of bubbliness that she would’ve needed to be a woman in a movie who makes those kinds of videos, and Katie hadn’t even thought about getting her period at the time, so she didn’t ask her mom to make these videos in advance, or teach her about tampons from her hospital bed, so, really, it was her fault that she was stuck in that bathroom, bleeding like a pig and wanting to squeal like a pig and just feeling largely pig-like, dumb and pink and covered in slop, although “covered” is an exaggeration, and she wondered if maybe it’s not very feminist of her to think of her period blood as her body’s own slop because at thirteen she had just discovered Instagram feminism, which featured a host of pink infographics that taught her about the stigmatization of the menstrual cycle, often accompanied by cute cartoons of bloody tampons, and Katie thought that maybe that’s what she was doing, stigmatizing her own period, a self-stigmatization, a solo stigmatizing mission, but the more she said the word in her head the more confused she got because she was never really sure what it meant, and when she began to mumble the word aloud to herself in the stall, sitting on the toilet and repeating “Stigmatization. Stigmatization. Stigmatization” it began to sound less and less like a word, so eventually she felt as though she was speaking just to speak and she had nothing real to say after all, which, funnily enough, was something her mom used to say to her when Katie would stumble over her words and end up just saying what her mom called “Nothing sentences,” which usually went something like “Well, I think I did well, but I’m not really sure, it could go either way, you win some you lose some, life hands you lemons and sometimes you make lemonade and sometimes you let the lemons rot so bad that the skin and then flesh are devoured by mold, green green green, and sometimes you make lemonade out of those lemons, too, and sometimes you drink the lemonade and sometimes you don’t and you could get sick or you couldn’t and I could’ve failed my test or I could’ve passed my test I’m really not sure,” to which her mother would respond with “Jesus Christ, Katie. Say something!,” but when she tried to do then in the bloody bathroom stall, she couldn’t say “Stigmatization” for too long before it became nothing, and Katie wondered if, maybe, the words became nothing in her mouth, if they existed as something before she decided to say them but as soon as they touched her lips and her teeth they dissolved into a Lack a Loss an Absence, so that no matter what words she strung together every time they would mean nothing, or they wouldn’t mean anything, and then she wondered if getting her period had made her lose her damn mind because the problem at hand was not her inability to do or say anything meaningful—that could wait—, but rather the period happening right at that moment, a crisis between her legs, a feeling that she became familiar with upon the growth of her first pubic hair, black and shocking and deeply terrifying, which she mostly dealt with through avoidance, closed eyes and a refusal to look down, but that tactic, although well-practiced, could not help Katie in this situation, she knew, because avoiding it would mean waddling out of this bathroom and into the crowded chaos of the pool with blood smeared between her thighs and stained on the bottom half of her striped bathing suit, visible to everyone in the place, including her friends and their mothers and that boy, Alex, who was in her class and wore a too-big suit to her mom’s funeral and baggy white board shorts at the pool that made his dark skin glow, and, now that she thought about it, Katie realized that a lot of the people at the pool were at her mom’s funeral—Alex and her friends and their moms and Alex’s mom and Katie’s next-door neighbors and her science teacher, Ms. Allen, who, at the pool, wore a flowy sundress and stayed the whole time in her chair, wisely unwilling to display her body to the kids who went to her middle school—and Katie’s sure that if she walked out of that bathroom in a bloody suit they’d all stare, and the kids would giggle, until, eventually, one of the moms would rush over and wrap her in a patterned beach towel, maybe Scooby-Doo or SpongeBob-themed, and this would be worse than the staring and the laughing, this gently bruising touch of soft arms on her shoulders and the whisper of “Sweetie, do you need a tampon?” which, when responded to with a scared shake of the head, would be followed by “Oh, honey, I’ll grab one for you. We can figure it out together, okay?”; Katie was sure that she would hate it so much, the smell of the woman’s floral perfume so close to her face, the brush of the woman’s hair against Katie’s sticky cheek, that she would rip away from the woman and jump into the pool, kicking the towel away from her to swim across the lanes and into the ocean and out to the ends of the earth, where she’d be free to bleed in peace—this is was what she wanted to do at her mother’s funeral, when adults were looking at her with too much sadness and kids with too much awkwardness, so the only solution she could think up was to run to the sea and swim away, and, now that she thought about it, maybe she should leave this bathroom bleeding, so that people would know her as that girl instead of the one with the dead mom, and she wondered if her mom had made a video about what to do when you get your period, if she’d have included anything about this, the swimming and the gentle arms and the funeral-looks, but Katie’s pretty sure she wouldn’t’ve because her mom was calculating and smart and not very sensitive, and she didn’t have the patience for Katie’s powerful insecurities or her wild fantasies, but it didn’t matter, not really, and actually maybe it didn’t matter at all, because Katie’s mom didn’t make her any videos about getting your period for the first time, and then she died, and Katie still had no idea what to do in that bathroom, tampon-less and alone, so she curled up on the toilet, bringing her knees to her chest, and when she heard a knock on the bathroom’s plastic door, she hoped that, maybe, if she curled into a small enough ball she’d fall right into the toilet and could swim to the ocean that way. 














































                                                 Sacré-Coeur


My father was always a soft man, both in the physical sense and in his disposition. On winter nights in Minnesota, he would sit on the floor by our fireplace. I’m getting too old for this, he’d grumble to himself, but then he’d fold himself into the floor and watch the flames, wait for me. I used to curl into his lap, rest my head on his large belly, and he would wrap me into his big arms, press a kiss onto my head, whisper, “Lucinda, I love you.” I’d nuzzle my head into his chest and breathe in, long and slow, then climb to stand in the hole of his crossed legs, smile a full grin (minus a few teeth), and say, “I love you, Dad,” with the ease of gravity. My love, and my telling him so, was a law of the universe.
        When I was eight, we traveled out of the country for the first time. Mom and Dad had never gotten to go on a honeymoon because they loved me so much, they couldn’t do anything else until I came into their lives, they were so excited. Mom later admitted that yes, she was pregnant before they got married, and no, they didn’t have the means to go away, especially now that a money-sucker was going to eat too many pieces of their financial pie, but she truly didn’t mind. Deep down, she was lying. She did mind a bit; I knew from the way she’d talk about her sister Abby’s trip to Belize or her co-worker Dolores in Italy, how each isn’t that sweet? or doesn’t that sound just beautiful? was laced with a drop of resentment that she had never left the continental U.S. herself.  
        The plane tickets, three white rectangles with orange circles slapped in their centers, three white bills marked TO: PARIS, FRANCE, three white promises of I love you and I don’t regret a thing were a surprise from Dad, and she cried when she saw them, thick tears filled with dark mascara. She held his hands and kissed him, and she said, “I am thankful for you every day. Forever and always.”
        On the trip, for the most part, we did everything she wanted to do. It was all for her. She would suggest something and say, But are you sure? and he would sputter out a cough and a nod, smiling the entire time. He only had one request: visit Montmartre. On our last day, we did.
        The metro was, for an eight-year-old, long and boring, even when Dad tried to make me learn numbers in French, the only thing he himself knew other than the “Je voudrais” and “L’addition, s’il vous plait” he learned for the trip. I, of course, protested and rested my head against the window, brows pinched in exhaustion and general grumpiness from the lack of sleep accumulating over the last six days. Dad only rubbed my shoulder with his finger, thumbing circles on the back of my left shoulder blade.
        The neighborhood was filled with sloping hills, pink houses, cascading ivy down the sides of old shops. Upon arrival, Dad broke out his textbook knowledge in a boulangerie (“Je voudrais un pain au chocolat for my daughter”), and I pulled apart the brown-speckled pastry with two sticky fingers, distracted by the flakey food from the 270 steps up to the Sacré-Coeur.
        “Lucy, Lucy, stand right here.” Mom pulled her phone from her bag, holding it up before I even had time to wipe the chocolate off of my cheek, however that got there.
        “Mom, please, stop,” I whined.
        “Lucinda, come here, please. Just appease your mother.” Dad extended his scooped arms, beckoning to me, welcoming me in like a warm pool on a cool Spring day. He lowered himself into the open space, just sat in the middle of the sea of stone stairs, one small figure among the standing people scattered around him.
        “I don’t want another picture.” I crossed my arms and shook my head, my version of a tantrum. “I don’t want one.”
        “Lucinda, please don’t be like this,” he said, gently. So gently.
        “It’s fine, George.” As an accessory to an exasperated sigh, Mom adjusted her dark curls with the fingers of her free, phoneless hand. “I’m going into the Basilica, then. She can stay out here until her attitude changes.”
        “I’ll stay with her here. You enjoy, my love.” 
As she walked away, she lifted the phone, pointing it at the arching domes and crackling stone walls, the color of tea-stained paper.
        “Come here,” Dad said, beckoning to me again. Free from the threat of a camera click, I went, curling into his lap like I always used to, laying my head in the crook of his neck, arms linked behind his head. “Why are you making things hard for Mom?”
        “Why does she need another picture? I don’t want another.”
        “You may someday.”
        “I think pictures are stupid.”
        “I do too.”
        “You do?” I pulled back, looking up at him.
        “Sure. Why not remember the moment as it is?”
        I had never thought of that before but considering my reasoning at that age (I just don’t like them!) was much weaker than his, I just said, “Uh, huh. Yeah.”
        He smiled down at me. “Do you know what this place is called?”
        I exhaled loudly and rested my head against his chest again, closing my eyes. “I forget. What’s it called?”
        “It’s called the Sacré-Coeur. Sacred Heart.”
        “What does that mean?”
        “It means that Jesus loved people so much, and he went around showing everyone his heart, even people that didn’t deserve it, so that his heart became special.”
        “Really?”
        “Probably.” He laughed lightly, a vibration against my limp body, like this was some big joke to him, and I scowled.
        “I want a special heart.”
        “Well,” he kissed my nose, “you won’t get one by being mean to your mother.”
        I frowned. “Okay, I’ll get a picture.”
        “Good. Be good to your mother.”
        “Dad, do you have a sacred heart?”
        “No. No, I have a broken heart.”
        “A broken heart? What do you mean?”
        He shook his head softly. “Oh, it’s nothing. Oh look, here comes Mom. Honey!” he called, and trotting down the steps, she turned, grinning when she saw him.
        “Has someone turned their attitude around?” She put her hands on her hips, tapping the foot of an extended leg.
        I looked at Dad. He winked, and if I hadn’t been staring at him the whole time, I might’ve missed it. I scrunched my nose, conceding, “I’ll get a picture, Mom.”
        Dad and I shuffled together, two tectonic plates bumping and shifting, until I sat on the edge of his knees, his hands on my sides as if to hold me up. My mother held up her phone, camera ready to shoot, and snapped away.
Looking at the pictures now, my smile was too round and not upturned on the corners, false joy oozing through the image. Tears brim at remembering the moment still, a moment when he told me, but I didn’t understand. 
Dad died two months after that trip of heart cancer. It’s a rare form, only one in 100,000 ever get diagnosed, and Dad was one of the (un)lucky recipients. He passed in a hospital under the bright fluorescent lights that matched the white of his teeth as Mom’s hands clasped around his, as thick tears filled with mascara rolled down her cheeks, and she said, “I am thankful for you every day. Forever and always.”
Sometimes, when I tell the story, I edit the words. I tell friends, loved ones, that he said he had a special heart himself because his heart was pumping, and what’s more special than human life? 
And really, truly, I still wonder to myself, sitting on the steps of the Basilica fifteen years later, abroad for the semester in Paris, what is?