Note: if you can’t find a piece, remember to use Command +F!








Wipers  [DU]


I look to my brother, my twin,
suffering the same fate as I.
He commands us to part the ocean;
Moses, we need to be.
We have only our bodies, and
an endless deluge of water;
Sisyphus, we are.
We spend our days waiting for Him
to command us, slaves
to His desires. A necessity for Him,
an uncovering of His eyes.
Without us, He stays blind.
Loneliness is a terrible blindness.


And the ocean flows on, drowning
everything in its path.




Ethan Barrows












































Bad Schandau [DU] 


As we leave the cream houses with red-tiled roofs
On the banks of the river Elbe
Dotted with gliding swans and moseying ducks,
The Gothic steeples towering over Meissen
Hearkening back to the days of ribbed vaults and
Resounding chants in minor keys,
The GPS lady develops a most atrocious
Case of laryngitis,
Starts choking and gravely regurgitating
Names with myriad guttural consonants


A young curmudgeon in the making,
You slam the brakes
Give the steering wheel a whack
And turn her off
―I don’t need a moronic machine
telling me what to do―
Rerouting onto a gravely country road,
You urge me to get outta the goddamn car
And check the cellphone signal.


A splotchy blood orange hovers in the sky
Squirting its crimson juices on the horizon.
Golden wheat stalks sway in the wind,
Brushing past my nose and sprinkling
Grains into my hair.
I’ve always been offended by plants
That have the audacity to grow
Taller than me


Having a vastly different bone to pick,
You whine
―We’ll never get to Bad Schandau at this rate―
Appalled at every slight alteration to your plans.
But maybe you’re a Bad Schandau for gracing us with
Your terrible navigation skills
And I’m a Bad Schandau for not helping.


When the syrupy ochre pancake rises in the sky,
I start cackling like a ludicrous lunatic,
Managing to blurt out
―Look, it’s a honey moon―
In between my wheezing teehees.
With a patronizing scowl,
You assure me that there will never be
A honeymoon,
I can just forget about it,
And that you’re sleeping in the car.


I lie down in the field,
Sinking into the crackling dry grass,
Gazing at this appetizing ceiling above
That looks like it’s dotted with vanilla sprinkles,
Realizing that I haven’t eaten since morning.


You know what…
Maybe it’s okay that we’re not
In Bad Schandau right now,
Because I kind of
Sort of
Forgot to make a hotel reservation anyway.




Louise Faitar














































to patrick berzins 
a mouse and house
met a house and a mouse


mice
house


Zengel Chin 
































































                                Autumn Springs 


The monsters of the Conall household always acted up at the dinner table. 
Douglas Conall’s mighty lion-like beast had a habit of nudging his arms with its wet snout so he would spill his drink. Tonight, the candles his wife had pulled from the back of the dining room cabinet cast a rippling glow on the lion’s scarlet fur making it shine like a fresh wound. Penelope focused her gaze on the pasta mountain on her plate rather than looking into its drooling, toothy face. 
At this point in the night the twin candles had melted to half of what they once were, and Jean Douglas’s eyes were watery enough to reflect their light. Penelope hated when her mother cried— an event as common as the heat of the summer. Her tears signaled the appearance of her own monster. Well, Penelope wasn’t sure whether or not it could be called a monster, but the fear that ran through her looking at it made her think it an apt title. As soon as that little clown’s bell-riddled hat poked up over the edge of the table Penelope felt her throat tighten. It’s rotten, multicolored suit and sad, dark eyes has the special skill of making her feel guilty for something she couldn’t remember doing. Penelope was sure it resembled how her mother felt: embarrassed and mocked when she cried. Her mother’s shame spoke volumes even when she could not.
        “We aren’t talking about this anymore,” Douglas said. He often spoke in loud proclamations these days. Penelope suspected it likely had to do with the amount of thin glass bottles she saw piling up in the recycling bin. As his voice crescendoed in time with the draining of his glass, the lion’s growl did the same. 
        “Like hell we aren’t,” her mother responded. Penelope looked up. ‘Hell’ was one of those words her mother had warned her against using around other kids at school. If Jean wasn’t self-censoring in front of her daughter, then Penelope was going to pay attention.
        Jean’s knuckles around her fork were turning white. Her dark hair slipped out of its clip. Penelope thought of the warriors in her picture books. This was what they looked like when they were about to go into battle.
        “I’m going back into the office on Monday,” she said.
        Douglas had gone silent, but the lion roared. Penelope covered her ears.
        “There’s no need—” he began.
        “Minnie called me earlier. They’re piling up in manuscripts,” Jean said. As an afterthought she added, “And I miss editing.”
        “I already told you I’m working late this week. You can’t—”
        “I see. So, we’re one of those families now. The big, strong man of the house gets to—”
        “Jesus Christ, don’t make it a feminist—”
        “Don’t act like your work is more important—”
        “I’m a doctor.”
        “Thank you, because I’d forgotten that fact.”
        “I’m only saying that out of the two of us, you’re the one who can take off. Enjoy that. Besides, you shouldn’t be going back in before you’re ready.” 
        “And you’re an expert in knowing your limits, aren’t you?”
        Penelope glanced up over the dinner spread as her parents argued. The lion was now arching back to pounce. It’s gargantuan yellow teeth bared at the clown throwing a tantrum next to it. Watching the clown wail and kick and jingle its jester’s hat bells was a ghastly sight. She didn’t understand how her parents ever heard themselves think with those creatures around.
        “Can you put them away?” Penelope heard herself squeak out before she could catch herself.
        Her parents turned towards her. The lion and clown did the same.
        “What was that, sweetheart?” her mother asked, putting on the smile she saved for Penelope even with the glistening tear tracks on her cheeks.
        Penelope didn’t say anything at first, to which Douglas prodded, “Put who away?”
        “Them,” Penelope pointed to the two creatures on the floor. 
        Douglas and Jean met each other’s gazes this time with more concern than malice.
        “I think you should go to bed early tonight, dear” her mother said while still looking at her husband in confusion. “It sounds like your nerves about school starting on Monday are getting to you.”
        Penelope frowned, “What does that mean?”
        “Why don’t you put your pjs on?” her father said. 
        Befuddled but happy to get away from the battleground, Penelope pulled back from her barely-touched plate and ran upstairs. As she changed out of her dress into her Tinkerbell nightgown, she wondered for the first time if her parents hadn’t noticed the monsters.
        She climbed into bed without brushing her teeth and listened as her parents’ muffled voices slowly rose again in her absence. Penelope didn’t dream that night.
***
        She woke in the late morning, put on the overalls Jean insisted were too big for her still, snuck a granola bar from the kitchen, and slipped out the front screen door before her parents could catch her. She scurried down the wooden porch steps towards the swing set in their neighbors’ yard she often borrowed. She walked barefoot on the sidewalk, balancing along the tracks of tennis shoe, paw, and stroller wheel imprints from before the cement dried fully. Penelope liked the patterns they made.
        She hopped up onto the center swing and ate her breakfast. She liked this view of her house better than its interior. The pale yellow paint and white-trimmed windows made it look more like a fairytale cottage. The maple trees around it hadn’t yet lost their summer green. She used to like the inside too, with all the strange found furniture her mom filled it up with making it stand out from the other houses in Franklin, Tennessee. Those houses probably didn’t have monsters though.
        “Penelope!” She glanced behind her to see Maggie and Nelson Thurman running in her direction.
        The twins lived a few houses down. They were in her class at school, and Penelope and Maggie used to be inextricable. Now, whenever Penelope saw Maggie’s puffed sleeves and matching puff pigtails, she turned away.
        It was nothing Maggie (or Nelson for that matter) had done, but things had changed.
        Nelson ran past her and climbed the slide attached to the swingset, and Maggie leaped into the swing next to her. Penelope picked at her wrapper and kicked the gravel at her feet.
        “Hi!” Maggie greeted her. She was already swinging a mile a minute. Penelope sighed; Maggie usually expected the rest of the world to keep up with her.
        “Hey,” Penelope pinched her cheeks into a smile mimicking the one her mother did when she was trying to hide her unhappiness. 
        “Are you excited for tomorrow? I think we should try to sit next to each other this year,” Maggie exclaimed.
        “Uh huh,” was all Penelope could get out. She wasn’t looking forward to school. First grade felt like a place for girls who didn’t spend their summer in a beast-infected household. She kept her head down, casting her curls in a curtain over her face. Usually when she did this her parents knew to stop talking to her. She hoped it would work with Maggie.
        “Wait until you hear about what Nelson and I did this summer,” it didn’t work. Maggie tumbled into a story about Disney World and visiting relatives at the beach. Penelope let the rhythmic creak of the swings’ chains and the occasional hum of cars passing drown out Maggie’s voice. She had no desire to learn about other kids’ summers. Jealousy began to bubble up in her chest.
        “Oh, and Mom and I just went shopping, I want to show you the dress I’m going to wear—”
        Penelope cut her off by leaping out of the swing. She decided to once again imitate her mother’s voice again: “I’m going to go home now. It was lovely to see you again.”
        She didn’t wait to see Maggie and Nelson’s response. She took off running. All of her classmates had been gone all summer at summer camps or on family vacations. Penelope had enjoyed being the only kid in the neighborhood whenever she needed to escape her house. There were intruders in both of her homes now. 
        She wasn’t even back in school yet, and already she was weary. The thought of running and playing not by herself weighed her down in a way she didn’t understand. 
Well, maybe she did. The beginning of the summer dug a hole into her life. She got comfortable with that emptiness. She didn’t want to refill it.
        Penelope felt a familiar pressure behind her eyes. She hadn’t cried in two months, and she wasn’t going to start now. She slid to a halt once she reached her front steps. She shut her eyes and clenched her fist until the pressure released. She had taught herself that trick after she saw her mother cry for the first time and swore to never embarrass herself like that. Once calmed, she opened her eyes and began to climb up the steps. 
A dog sat in front of her door, or something in the shape of a dog at least. Actually, it looked almost like a wolf. The only feature she could make out aside from its sharp outline was its eyes. Their pale blue felt familiar. It’s coat was such a deep black that it looked more like a shadow than anything tangible. Looking at it against the pastel house felt like looking at the absence of light. 
“Hello,” Penelope whispered. She put a hand out to pet the creature, but it cowered. She thought she should perhaps be scared of it, but it seemed more afraid of her. 
Deciding not to bother it, she stepped around its trembling figure and went inside. After the screen door rang shut, she turned to see it sitting in front of her once again. 
Penelope was very aware of the creature trailing her heels as she made her way to her room. Its faint whimpers and panting echoed around her head. 
Before reaching the stairs, she passed her mother’s office and noticed the door ajar. She put her eye up to the crack left open to see Jean hunched over her desk. One hand held a phone to her ear, and the other clenched the arm of her chair. 
“I shouldn’t have brought this up with you to begin with,” Penelope deduced that she was talking to her father.
“Well too late,” Jean scrunched up her shoulder to secure the phone and began typing away at her laptop. “I’m booking an appointment for her.”
After a pause she added, “I’m only setting one up for now. Just one. We’ll see how it goes and then discuss further.”
Penelope heard a bell chime and turned away from the door. The clown that followed her mother around had appeared next to her. Standing, it went up to Penelope’s waist. It didn’t try to harm her; it just stood and looked at her with horrid black eyes and quivering lips. Still, it made her gut clench.
“This will be good for Penelope,” her mother’s voice caught her attention again. “She needs someone to help her who isn’t us— a professional. You know this is all happening at a crucial time for her development. We really should have done this sooner.”
The clown reached up and grabbed Penelope’s hand. It looked at her with a gaze that played at sorrow. She bolted for the stairs.
She ran past the door to the room the Conall family was pretending didn’t exist, and into her own. She dove onto her bed and slid her head under the pillow. Her chest heaved, and she clenched her fists in her quilt. Her second near-explosion of the day.
She stayed there until the rush left her and a panting centered her. She slowly removed the pillow above her head to see the canine creature standing eye level with her. 
Penelope let out a rattling breath. She had figured out why that gaze looked so familiar to her. As if she had waved a white flag, the dog took that moment as a sign of surrender. It jumped onto the bed and curled itself around her. Penelope stayed there in that sadness for most of the day: her books, her dolls, her monster, and herself.  
***
        They ordered pizza for dinner that night. Jean said it was to celebrate Penelope’s return to school the next day. Penelope fed bits of it to her new companion under the table. 
        Douglas barely touched his plate as well, yet he downed his glass of amber liquid. Penelope wondered if it tasted good with how many refills he went through in a night. His tormented gaze and hunched figure in his seat at the head of the table made him resemble an aging king. His white lab coat draped over the back of his chair hung like a retired royal cape. There was a time she thought of her father as the most powerful man she’d ever known. The viscous red monster growling at his feet and whipping its tail against the hardwood floor scared her, but nothing else about Douglas seemed awe-inspiring anymore.
        “Penelope,” her mother interrupted her thoughts. “After school tomorrow, I’m going to pick you up and take you to see a woman named Dr. Lovelace.”
        Her father huffed in annoyance, and the lion’s rumble began to increase. In turn, she heard the ringing of bells from her mother’s clown. She held her breath.
        “Your father and I,” Jean made a point of looking over at her husband, “think it would be good for you to spend some time talking to someone about what’s happened this summer. I’ve talked to Dr. Lovelace, and I promise you she is just as lovely as her name would suggest. How does this sound to you?”
        Penelope looked down into the eyes of the dog at her feet, then back up into her mother’s vulnerable gaze. For the first time, she asked, “Why can’t we talk about Josephine? Just us?”
        A wave crashed over Jean Conall. She reached across the table and clutched Penelope’s hand as the tears welled up. The clown started screaming and kicking its legs. Penelope felt she’d made a mistake.
        “Of course we can talk about her, dear,” Jean said. Something in her tone made Penelope decide she actually didn't want to go down that route. That was when the lion roared.
        Penelope startled and looked towards her father shaking in his chair. It screeched as he pushed it back. He stood towering over the table for a moment, then abruptly left the dining room. The lion lept out after him. 
        She looked back to her mother, but she didn’t seem quite as surprised. Penelope thought she likely couldn’t hear the roar. 
        “What would you like to talk about, Penelope?” she said. 
        Deciding to echo the previous night, she responded with, “Actually, I think I’ll go to bed early.”
***
        As much as she wished she didn’t at times, Penelope remembered everything about her older sister. 
        She remembered car trips to visit their grandparents in Chattanooga. Penelope’s tiny voice would mingle with Josephine’s more mature tone as they sang along to Disney movie soundtracks and the Rascal Flatts. No matter how many times Penelope refused to play, her sister would hit her each time a Beetle sped past them. 
        She remembered Josephine’s ballet recitals. She had just started en pointe before she had gotten too weak to dance. Penelope would play the part of the annoyed younger sibling in having to go to all of Josephine’s performances, but really, she loved them. Even when she was one among many snowflakes on stage, Josephine shined brighter than the rhinestones on her costume to Penelope.
        She remembered crossing the busiest street in town hand in hand with Josephine on the way to school. Josephine would stop in front of Penelope’s preschool and squeeze her grip on Penelope’s tiny fingers before heading towards her middle school.
        She remembered Josephine giving her a spoon of her late night ice cream even when their parents declared that Penelope couldn’t have sugar after seven o’clock.
        She remembered how Josephine would always ignore her for the first hour after her parents made her babysit. She also remembered how by the end of the night, they would have spent hours make-believing the house was a castle. Josephine always crafted the most intricate bedtime stories. 
        She remembered watching Josephine the first time she decided to try make-up on and straighten her hair. Penelope couldn’t understand why she would try to change something that was already beautiful. She was always jealous of  her sister’s sleek dark hair compared to her own light, frizzy curls. 
Then, Penelope remembered when Josephine lost all her hair, weight, and dignity. Once it started making her sick, she hated Josephine’s body too.
She remembered sitting on the edge of Josephine’s hospice bed and watching movies with her. The cartoons were always interrupted by her older sister retching in a bowl or requiring her oxygen machine. The bright orange pill bottles lining the bedside table contrasting with Josephine’s grey bags beneath her eyes. She never got used to how small Josephine’s hand felt in hers during those last few months.
She remembered a closed door with an opaque window. She sat with her grandparents in the hallway while a symphony of sickness echoed from other rooms. She could see the outline of screens and wires tying Josephine to the living in those final moments. Her father had thrown it open, breaking the only barrier between Penelope and her sister’s body. That was the first time Penelope saw his monster trailing after him. She was scared of him that day.
She remembered a funeral on a sunny day in June.
Penelope was still learning how to remember her sister in a way that didn’t hurt.
***
The dog’s bark woke her up. She squinted her eyes in the dark of her room to see it pawing at her door as it whined.
She got up and walked over to the door. The cold hardwood floor against the pads of her feet made her shiver. As soon as she opened the door the dog bolted for the one across the hall and began clawing at it too. 
Penelope’s heart sped up as she moved towards the door. Raising her hand to turn that doorknob felt like moving through molasses. She almost couldn’t do it.
The dog let out a bark. She looked at its pleading eyes, and opened the door to her sister’s room.
The light purple walls and white furniture felt too intimate. Penelope hadn’t entered this room in two months: it was achingly nostalgic and overwhelmingly unnatural. 
She climbed onto the furry white comforter of the queen-sized bed and curled in on herself. She saw Josephine’s jewelry box still open on the vanity. It had expected her to come home from the hospital ready to make herself over again. Penelope used to think that too.
The dog jumped up next to her on the bed and began whimpering again. She followed its gaze to the ventilator next to them. It commanded the space in all its hideous, mechanical glory. The beeping that she used to hear each night still haunted her.
And yet, that wasn’t the thing that sent her over the edge. The sight of the cardboard boxes piled up in front of the closet with her mother’s handwriting in sharpie made her want to scream. They read, “Josephine’s clothes— for Penelope.”
The idea that her parents were waiting for her to grow up into Josephine’s skin made her tremble. She had no interest in filling the space Josephine left behind— she was only recently growing comfortable with that vacancy.
The dog rested its obsidian head on her leg. It looked up at her with Josephine’s eyes. Penelope laid down next to the beast and cried for the first time since Josephine’s death.
***
Both of her parents walked her to the bus stop at the end of the street. Douglas had argued over breakfast that Penelope was old enough to go by herself, and that he had to get to work early. Jean wouldn’t hear it, and so what was left of the Conall family made their way down the avenue.
The bus hadn’t arrived yet once they reached their destination. As they waited, a breeze ran through making Penelope’s hair float up and brush her cheeks. Fall was on the way.
She paused for a moment once the bus slid up in front of them. She felt that stepping onto it would be the end to an important chapter. In a moment of bravery, she said, “Josephine should’ve been the one walking with me today.”
The silence that followed spoke louder than anything her parents could have said.
“It’s not fair,” she continued.
“No,” her father’s voice cracked. He put a hand on her shoulder, and she lifted her eyes to see his pained face, “it’s not fair.”
The bus pulled up in front of them, and she quickly boarded. Once seated, she looked out the window to see her father bent over herself and her mother pointedly looking away with cloudy eyes.
A wolf, a lion, and a clown all stood behind them. She watched them retreat back to the house.




Katy Gilmore




 Transferal [DU]


Away from home… and then all at once 
not. The midnight heart-to-heart


happened before we could let it.
You decaffeinated everyone else,


poached the elephant in the room,
each half of this conversation


existing only in our heads for months.
We texted once over Christmas break.  


You never pictured your bracelet changing hands,
its meaning spilled over, transferred to me.


Transferal to Boston, to block parties,
to living like your little brother.


To think of years spent on opposite shores
almost linked by two mutual friends then


finding out you were always looking out,
each little secret bundled up higher and higher.


Two decades as strangers eroded in months.
Landmark cigars and late-night 30 Rock. 


And then, lying beached on your bedroom floor
and the look of recognition on my car seat.


Walking back from the bar like middle-school 
friends, zigzagging from orexic laughter.


I drove home with one hand, the other miming
fullness, disbelief, thankfulness, somehow. 




Paul Verdirame










The boy I kicked out of my room last night 


did not know that my bones are icy cold,
that these blue strands across my skin are not
the veins that they appear to be but rather
barbed-wire, that digs and cuts its way into me.
He was surprised by my tear soaked eyes,
and by my skin, which was bruised by life’s needles—
boring their way through me, into my soul.


When moonlight glinted off my smile, fake like
his, he saw my broken body. His lips
fell and formed a little “oh.” I cried “go.”


And then I watched him fade away into
the dark, despairing night. He left without
a backwards glance
as he fled my sorry house.




Alexa Kirby






































A ghastly ghostly hoe down throw down  [DU]


Oooh noooo it’s a ghost
A cold, sexy
Hot lil ghost
Right here in my home


I’ll say your name 3 times 
So that you appear behind me
And give me that 
ghosty good good


And then I’ll climb up
Up under that dirty sheet
And let you slink around 
My haunted halls


No priest necessary 
Just me,
you,
And a whole lot of plasma




Patrick Berzins
































The Poetry Anthology 


A red cover,
beaten, corners
no longer sharp,
holds a collection of poems
once visited by the ink
of my watchful pen.


Your hands held the same copy.
Your eyes devoured those same words
in pursuit of that right
combination of syllables— the ones
that would finally satiate your hunger.


Beside me in class,
you wrote notes in the margins of my copy
as I scribbled dreams in the blank spaces
between your stanzas. We never could fill
the gaps between us


so we left our story unfinished.


Now, your book sits
dusty and deserted
on the closet shelf.


You stumble across my memory
in the same way you stumble upon that
forgotten red book
when you’re looking
for something new to read.




Alexa Kirby










Green Collared Jacket


On the corner of Berkshire Road lies a little pond, wrapped in my footsteps. I sit on top of a
melting snowbank, curled into a ball, pen in hand. That green collared jacket hangs off my
shoulders, keeping my weak bones from the wind.


I stole it from your closet, Dad, and now I wear you everyday. The checkered padding on the
inside is tearing, but you still shield me on my long walks alone in this violent and never-ending
winter.


I put my hands on top of each other through the sleeves when they’re red and peeling, and I keep
my tissues in the left bottom pocket like you did, Dad. I leave the cuffs unbuttoned and the collar
down. And sometimes, when I cry, I wipe my cheeks on your sleeves, like I used to, Dad.


The first week after I left, that green collared jacket still smelled like you, like fresh bread and
blue aftershave, like comfort and like my school days, and when I buried my face in it, it felt like
a hiccup and a hug after a long and hard cry.


But little by little, you faded until you were gone, and that green collared jacket became mine.
When it lost your warmth, I knew it was up to me and only me to brave the winter wind. And as
you sit with me on the corner of Berkshire Road, on the side of the frozen pond, I know I’ll take
you everywhere with me even when you’re worn through and faded.




































Loretta on the Bayou 


They say you just rose out of
The marsh one day
With soggy overalls
And a wide-brimmed hat,
Salt crystallizing on your
Caterpillar-lookin’ eyebrows.
You blew your nose just a little
To get the algae out
And gave the world a crooked
Whiskey-stained grin.


The sun comes in through the
Weeping trees lined with
Spanish moss,
The rays landing right on
Your forearm.
You look down and
Flex your wrist,
Making the tattoo of the
Lobster-lookin thing move its
Pincers.
―It’s a crawdad―


You explain with a
Raspy croak,
As if this very distinction
Makes the world go round.


I never understood how you could
Live in such a
God-forsaken place,
Getting up before dawn
Just to go make clucking
Squawking noises
Out by the water,
Waiting until the herons
And egrets answer back.
How you collect
Broken banjo strings
And let them coil up in a jar
Because maybe one day
They’ll help you pick out
The sand granules
From between your teeth.


The air is oppressive


Steamy and wet,
Forming layers on my lungs.
Your soulful humming ceases
And your elbow jabs at my ribs.
―God-forsaken?!
No, my good fool―


You yank a dripping blade of
Grass with your calloused fingers
And hold it up.
―This is God’s sweat,
That white egret over there
Is an Angel,
And this is the closest to
Them you’ll ever get―


So when the sun sets
Over the morass and swamps
And the mosquitoes start
To swarm,
I know that I’ll still find you here,
Sloshing on the edge of
Paradise that’s


Sunken in the Delta.




Louise Faitar






The Quest for Wompas the Bastard [DU]


Out amongst the weeds
and the flipper-frill willows
We suddenly awoke
upon a green and brown pillow


Our heads were abuzz
with the wicker wisp tunes
As they danced from our bed
And back into the gloom


Their small little lanterns 
Had the hallow alight 
with the magic of Wompas 
the mysterious sprite


And but a moment later 
As if from a dream
Came that greying old bastard
In a flannel and jeans 


Now what do you want?
He boomed with a grin 
Do you know who I am?
He said stroking his chin


I’m Wompas the Fairy 
He quipped with a whistle
I dance with the trees
And sing with the thistle 


We’ve heard of the stories
I said with a start 
They say you grant wishes 
To those pure of heart


So we’ve come for your blessing
I continued to fumble
We just bought a beehive 
Whose genus is ‘Bumble’


They won’t make you honey 
He began with a laugh
 So what do you want 
From my ancient old ass


We wished for the health 
Of our bees in the end
We didn’t need honey 
We just wanted friends


Patrick Berzins




















































  [DU]
To the person who wrote the Depressing Ass Poem on the previous page:










ILoveYou.




Owen Fletcher




























































In the Night [DU]


The night feels damp and heavy through the window you’ve left open just a crack. You can
feel, almost smell the moisture seeping into your clothes as you drive. You shiver and
imagine your sweater is now at least ninety percent water.
Ahead, taillights drip down the back of your eyes like thousands of melted crayons.
The road under your tires shudders every few seconds and you wonder if somewhere, miles
away, there wasn’t an earthquake. The blackness envelops you, punctuated softly by minute
flecks of bright light. These are the signs of people living their lives. You were one of them
only hours earlier, before . . . no, you think, now’s not the time.
Your hands on the steering wheel feel like hunks of dead ice. They seem only to
respond eons after you command them to. White noise fills your ears: swish, swosh, swoosh.
It reminds you of a nursery rhyme, you’re not sure which, but your windscreen wipers are
now bothering you. Too much stimulation. You switch them off and smile to yourself for a
second. Now it’s the rattling of your engine or the bus chugging along beside you or the
occasional horn in traffic. Always something. You reach for the bottle to steady yourself.
The rain floods your windscreen and the taillights ahead become wetter, wetter, a
mirage of spilling light. Your own Atlantis. The cars on the opposite lane drive atop pillars of
their own reflected light, like driving over one long stretch of glass ballroom.
Maybe life wasn’t so bad, maybe you could be somebody, maybe you could become a
poet. But would it mean anything at all without her? You doubt it would.
Alone here, in this wet night is the closest you’ll come to happiness without Emma
and the comfort of marriage. The thought depresses you.
The lights beyond your windscreen start to flicker as the world around you becomes
fainter and fainter. The memory telescopes away.


***


You open your eyes, pissed off after succumbing to sleep. You need to do better than this.
Your eyes begin to focus, you’ve left the TV on, as always.
In sports news today, the newsreader says, Crystal Palace faced off against Leicester
City for the second time this season with Crystal Palace dominating Leicester for the duration
of the second half. Paul O’Flynn has more.
You’re tempted to throw the remote at the screen but instead you just switch it off.
Maybe if every dream wasn’t of the same night, maybe then it would be alright, but the more
you will yourself not to dream of it, the more you do. The simple solution: don’t fall asleep.
You stand up and get yourself a glass of murky water. The clock says twenty past six,
you glance out the window, overcast but still bright. You’re thankful for summer. Darkness
makes your life much, much harder. You feel empty, devoid, craving. If hunger didn’t exist,
you might never leave the flat. It took a long time to admit this to yourself but obviously it’s
true. Who would want to go out in your situation?
Today is one of those days when you know you must leave. You check the fridge, just
to be sure. Half a can of beans and a furry broccoli. Stupid fucking food. You vow vengeance
against the fridge as you slam its door shut. It closes softly, that’s a feature of the fridge,
apparently. You’re about to give it a kick then decide against it. This would only make
certain going out to buy a new one. Screw that.
Alone, here in your flat, his eyes aren’t on you yet, but they will be soon enough, you
know that. Just you wait, just you fucking wait. You grab your keys from the bowl, take a
deep breath and leave your apartment. The door closes loudly behind you.
As soon as you get out on the street, you can sense him behind you. Relentless,
efficient, ubiquitous. You don’t know what he has against you, even after all this time. You
find it impossible to do anything anymore. Even going to the shops is a struggle. He seems to
disapprove. You know you shouldn’t have gone out.
You can visualize him behind you. You wish you couldn’t, if only you didn’t have to
think about that horrid, bloated face. The long parka, the grizzled beard, the bubbling vape in
one corner of his cracked lips. Then the eyes, oh God the eyes, with their blank stare of death.
You shouldn’t think like this.
You dash into the local corner shop across the bridge and grab what you need. Milk,
eggs, bread, the essentials. Nothing fancy, you don’t have the time. The small, elderly cashier
is used to you by now so doesn’t question your examining of the other customers. You pay,
you say thank you. A good citizen.
You leave the shop and cross back over the bridge, almost identical to the one from
the night you dare not think of. He has gained on you, you can feel it. You glance over your
shoulder as you walk. A woman wheeling a pram gives you a startled glare. Fool. Doesn’t
she realize the danger she’s in? Then again, he is an expert at keeping three or four paces
behind ever getting caught. The smooth bastard.
You quicken your pace. The plastic bag clutched in your right hand flails wildly in the
breeze. The traffic lights ahead go from amber to red. You see your chance, you take it. You
throw yourself into the road against a flurry of blaring horns.
You sprint across four lanes of traffic, congratulating yourself for your immense
bravery and perseverance as you run. You’re past the curb and over it, zipping along. Relief
swells over you, the entrance to your building is only yards away. A smile cracks your lips,
home free. You’re almost there when a glass door opens to your right and you go through it.
This doesn’t feel great, like your entire body has been stung by ten thousand murderous
wasps. Your bag spills over the pavement and you find yourself in a pool of cold milk.
Somehow, you keep your eyes open because you want to be sure, yes you need to be
sure. He appears in a second, of course, as you knew he would, in his frayed army green
parka. A raised eyebrow and a knowing grin on his inverted features. He blows smoke in
your face, goodbye.


***


Falling, falling . . . but you know where you are. You’re there, in the night. To dream a dream
a thousand times.
The road flows under you like a river and suddenly you’re adrift. Floating along the
black rapids with dozens of others in their metal boxes. It would be pleasant if it wasn’t so
tragic. You take another swig of the bottle to stop the image of her coming to you. But, of
course, as soon as you think this, there Emma is. The same woman you held in your arms all
your adult life.
Her auburn hair, glinting in the buttery overhead light on your walk home the night
you first met. Her throaty laugh, those swimmable eyes, her warm, soft hands. Somehow,
against all the odds, she had believed in you. Believed you had talent when everyone
including yourself knows you’re nothing more than a schizoid drunk poorly disguised as an
artist. Ironic then that the only person who ever fell for your delusions was the very same
person you took all your frustration out on. The bottle has a lot to answer for and so do you.
But why tonight, of all nights? On the actual anniversary, could she not have waited?
Could divorce talk not have waited? Is she that sadistic? Apparently. Where does she expect
you to sleep? When you put this to her, she shrugged, actually shrugged like she was in a
goddamned soap opera. Cold bitch. No, no, you shouldn’t say that. All those good years
together but then . . . shit, there aren’t words for how you’re feeling.
The numbing process is starting to happen though. At least that’s something. Your
vision is lovely and blurry, like everything is just so excited to see you that they’re shaking.
All shaking. The whole world shaking for you.
You have the car, check, and the traffic around you too. Maybe you can stay here all
night. Freeze time and settle into the slick warmth of the road. Succumb to the rolling,
heaving, oil-clouded river of wheels and exhausts and grilles.
Curl up by a traffic cone, open your mouth to the pouring rain. Become a living,
breathing water feature.


***


You open your eyes, you’re not driving. That life is gone a while.
Here, right now, you’re lying in a white room, on a white bed while the wall across
from you beeps and whirrs. A window to your left opens on a vast car park. You feel as
though you might choke on the smell of bleach but at least he is nowhere to be seen.
Maybe this is what you’ve needed, total escape. You could go further even: get out of
the rat race, find a place in the countryside. Hell, find a woman, start a family, watch cricket,
go for long walks on the beach. Buy a farm, grow apples, pick the apples, play with your
kids. Smile, smile, always smile and die an old man with a free conscience.
Yes, yes, this idea is a nice one. All this business of a man following you is silly
anyway. Just totally ridiculous. Obsessive, some might call it. Yes, you admit, it’s damn
obsessive. Admitting it to yourself is the first step, they say. Yes, they do say that. You’ve
heard them. Obsessive and childish, you’re happy you’ve put all that nonsense behind you
now. Elated.
You hear footsteps in the hall. Someone checking in on you, isn’t that nice for a
change? The cream, heavy door to your right opens a crack and . . . and . . . his pallid face
stares in at you. You feel a sudden cold.
Oh, you’re up, he says and enters the room.
Naturally, you recoil from his grotesque form.
Relax, relax, I’m just checking your bandages, he says. You had quite the accident.
With the gentlest of touches, he lifts the bandages from your forehead. You never
knew he had it in him.
Looks like we’ll need to sort you out with some fresh ones. Your lucky day, he says
with a chuckle. I have some here.
He reaches into his caked-over coat pocket and produces a fresh roll of bandages.
You do your best not to vomit as his putrid fingers delicately wrap your head.
A car door slams shut. Out of the corner of your eye, you watch as two of him walk
from a car holding hands. But . . . what? Somehow, he is in two places at once.
Stay still, he says. I can’t wrap your head unless you stay perfectly still.
You glance at the corridor. The swishing sounds of hundreds of his mottled parka
attack your ears. Every few seconds, another one of him passes by, each with their own
individual purpose.
You stare, for what feels like ages, into the white turned back eyeballs in front of your
face. The mouth smiles and you can feel the bile rising.
We’ll get you all nice and fixed up now, so we will, he says.
Just fucking please, you say. Please, please, just leave me alone. I’m . . . I’m, I’m tired
of this. So tired.
You shrink back into yourself. He looks surprised.
Why do you do this? I’m sorry, Jesus Christ I’m sorry, okay? I didn’t mean it. It
wasn’t my fucking fault! Please, please, please.
He puts a hand on your shoulder. You close your eyes; you can feel the tears welling
up.
He tuts softly at you.
I’m sorry, I’m so sorry. I didn’t mean it, I didn’t mean it, you mumble.
You’ve started shaking and you can’t stop. You feel your energy draining.
In the world out there, there are footsteps and a whole commotion. Voices are heard.
You want him to turn into regular nurses and doctors but know the minute you open your
eyes, that’s not what you’ll see. You want no part in any of this anymore. It’s all . . . it’s all
just too much.
Things begin to lose focus as the world slowly tunnels away, like at the end of Looney Tunes, and you’re brought back. Back to the beginning of your nightmare.


***


You’re behind the wheel again, carried along in a sea of lights and it’s during this underwater
dusk that it happens.
Some thing, some person, some man is walking with another blob, some thing, some
person, his wife. The bridge you’ve turned on to is empty, you know that. The feeling of
freedom is like nothing you’ve experienced since Emma last let you have sex with her. You
have power here, the rumble of the car engine deep in the pit of your stomach proves it.
You think these blobs are nothing, like ants really, and too late, you are bearing down
on them like Mad Max. That brain of yours takes in the scenery but does little with this
accelerating information. Your shaking hands spin furiously on the wheel two seconds after it
matters.
Some thing, some person, some man hits your windshield. You notice the shock in his
eyes and his blood-stained beard, and his parka pulled over his shoulders before he bounces
loudly once and hurtles into the night, over the bridge and sinks into your crumbling Atlantis.
You imagine one raised hand clutching at air as it, the man, sinks.
The other blob lies prostrate somewhere beside your car, or behind it or under it.
Suddenly, everything becomes clear, highlighted in sharp relief and you realize your error.
You turn the keys, put your foot to the pedal and vanish in a puff of smoke.
You drive, you run, you hide.









Mark Jackson






















Dirty elbows, knees, ankles 


“Gangly
Grass-stained
Good-for-nothing-kids
Get-out-of-my-
Goddamn-field”


Goats grazing
Glare at us as we
Go hand in hand,
Gallop towards the fence, and
Gambol over the barbed wire.
Giggling the entire time, we
Get-out-of-the-goddamn-field.




Cecelia Durcan












































Fiona’s Sonata 


An ode to my grandmother
And her huge Sibley bird books:
Black-capped chickadees sing,
“Chick-a-dee-dee-dee, Sweet-ee”
As the conductor begins


To rouse an orchestra of
Songbirds into symphony,
It’s philharmonic flight.
“Jay-jay-jay” “Tut-tut” “Chirp-chirp”
Now her birdfeeder is a stage.


She points out first chair favorites -
Red-winged blackbirds pause to prune
Rounded ruby shoulders.
They’ve dressed sharply to perform
For us, captive concertgoers.


This is how we pass the hour,
Pulling guides off the shelf and
Spying a Schubert
Between the pages together.
“Mark the date with a pencil, love”




Cecelia Durcan
























ENGLISH TEACHER’S LAMENT 


The New Yorker called this morning.


They say
My stanzas stand,
Emaciated.
Made of words that waste away.


But be honest.
Who still reads
Contemporary poetry?


A search history of synonyms, similes, and
Spoken-word syllables: all a ceaseless spew.
The dictionary’s
‘S’ section, stolen.
Thus, I strike back— ‘academic dishonesty.’


‘My sin, my soul’
The tongue taps its tip on the back of my teeth
Stumbling down stairs,
‘Lo-lee-ta.’
But why stop there—
Such simplicity?
Showcase your skill, savor the spotlight.
Shameless self-indulgence? No,
They salute the excessive.


Fools pretend to be Shakespeare.
So they’ve dropped sonnets, ditched meter.
In lieu, the modern poet asks:
‘How many
Aching-archaic-adverbs
Can I squeeze?’
In a single stanza
Of a poem about a love, never had.
In this consonance epidemic,
I stand alone.
And while Hemingway called it concision,
I say it’s sobriety.


Amelia Johnson-Pellegri


































































One day, I will kick my feet 


and clench my fists 
but I will not start.
Like the 2006 Hyundai Sonata
that my mother calls Bella,
beautiful, I will wait until 
the air is thick with cold 
to stall—for my engine to blow
in the middle of February 
during a storm on 476, 
no blankets or gloves
to protect from the bite 
of the piling snow 
on my windshield. 
I will watch it cover
and clump until I 
can’t make out the 
mile markers anymore.
I will turn and turn
my key, the one with 
my mother’s St. Christopher
keychain, but there will be nothing—
only enough power 
for a call to my family, 
an apology, 
and a tow on the way. 




Lexie Slotterbeck 




















Greta and Henry 


We were talking about celebrity crushes we had when we were younger. I said River Phoenix, because he was the first person I ever masturbated to. Henry asked me if I thought it was weird to masturbate over someone who was dead, and I said that I hadn’t really thought about it like that before. And it was true, it had never crossed my mind. 
He said his was Greta Müller. I said, Greta who? He said, Greta Müller. He said she was the queen of German cinema and also the first person he ever masturbated to. I googled her as I put my feet in his lap, digging them into his folded legs. The pictures loaded on my phone screen.
She’s old, I said. She’s, like, ninety years old. 
So? He said. At least she’s not dead. Look at when she was younger.
I guess, I said. I typed “Greta Müller young” into the search bar. A beautiful blonde woman with slightly parted lips and a beehive looked at the camera seductively. I showed Henry the phone and said, This one?
That one. I had a poster of that in high school.
You did not. 
I did. I taped to the wall in the back of my closet, behind my church clothes. I used to kiss it before I went to bed.
You sicko. 
I know. 
I thought about Greta and Henry a lot after that. I liked to imagine him pushing past dry-cleaned shirts to kiss her parted lips with tongue, wearing plaid pajama pants and smelling of mint. I thought about him daydreaming about her in math class, watching her black and white movies on weekends. I loved him more. He was a teenager once, too; he had loved people that never knew he existed; he had been around long before he had been able to grow a beard or make his own dentist appointments. 
We watched a movie of hers one night a few weeks later. The lights in the room were low and warm. We lay on opposite ends of the couch, his ankles nestled between my knee caps. When Greta came on screen an hour in, he sat up and nudged me and said, That’s her. I nodded and pretended to pay attention, but I stared at him while he watched her seduce the leading man. His eyes followed the length of her soft torso and rested upon the sharp edge of her bony clavicle. There was no envy there; it felt like a window into a private part of Henry that I would never get to see otherwise. It was a privilege to watch him from this angle; it made me love him more.  
Two months after that I was checking my email at work. I clicked on a message from the New York Times. The headline displayed: Greta Müller, Queen of German Cinema, Dead at 90. I clicked on it and read quickly. She’d had Multiple Sclerosis for the last thirty years. She died peacefully at her home in Munich with her husband. They had no children. 
I called Henry. It rang twice, then he picked up. I explained the situation, slightly out of breath. 
That’s sad, he said. I didn’t know about the M.S. 
Are you okay? I asked.
Am I okay? Of course I’m okay. He paused. Are you okay?
Yeah, I’m fine. I’m fine, I said. I thought you’d be more upset, though. 
I mean, I’m sad for her husband. It must be difficult to watch the person you love deteriorate like that. 
Yeah, I agreed. It must be.




Grace McPhee
























































Gray Converse


These beaten and broken kicks
have heard thousands of
notes, verses, and sets,
so many that the leather
had begun to deteriorate
decades before they were
passed on to me.
The laces are frayed, 
split at the ends like
the quarter-inch cables
you used to plug into your bass;
you’re lucky it didn’t explode.
You wore these on stages, 
in bars, on sidewalks and streets,
for crowds smaller and bigger
than I could ever imagine.
I’ll take them for spin after spin,
song after song, set after set, 
until I pass these dirty,
disheveled Chucks on again.




Ethan Barrows






























Abecedarian on Dahmer Street  [DU]


Across state lines, there’s a lot more
bloodshed to be found, I’m sure, but 
children– the ones big enough to drive cars and push pills–
declared that this particular crime scene was holy ground.
Every teenager in Akron has at least driven past it,
fought with a girlfriend in the passenger seat about 
getting out of the car to look around that yellow
house, slanted such that it seems it’s always sliding.
Inside, Hicks’s gold watch, a shaggy haircut, and 
Jeff’s only crime in Ohio, but all the same, a
killing place. The withered southern couple who bought it know now, 
lining the sunken yard with steel fencing, that no
matter how many coats of paint you slap on it, 
no one can remodel Dahmer Street. 
Once, a group of boys riled by rumor and Smirnoff 
placed bets on the first to find the murderer’s old hut.
Quiet early morning in early July, 
rustling left-over leaves behind the house, they 
surrounded the so-called shack, only to find
trees. Albeit a grouping of them, but still just trees, and 
under the white-hot moon, some seventeen-year-olds with
vendettas so misplaced they didn’t even know 
what they were angry about. I don’t know what they expected to find–
X-Acto knives, maybe, an exhibit of 
young bird skeletons he’d collected, or 
zip ties, if they were lucky. 






Lily Mesterhazy












Games of Victory, All Except One  [DU]


It was a scavenger hunt of the heart, 
One where teams were formed amidst the search. 


Mom and Dad found you in hikes along waterfalls 
And car rides blasting Jesse's Girl;
In last minute midnight confessions and rejected proposals. 
No longer a scavenger hunt but a game of Poker, 
They were willing to risk it all if it meant gaining each other. 


Robin and Thomas found you in athletic passion 
And naps that formed indents on mattresses; 
In the quiet of absent older sisters and the overcoming of overbearing mothers. 
Gone was the hunt replaced with Uno,
Their holes now filled with the one. 


Lily and Jack found you in holy scripture
And in an old movie’s lyrical lemonade;
In first times at cafes and matching lightsabers.
You transformed into a classic: Checkers,
Easily won and simple enough to not screw up. 


I, alone, found you in chilled damp graves
And shriveled hearts of long ago lovers whose ashes are now eternally mixed; 
In the shriveled petals of unwatered flowers and the smoke of blown out candles. 
You were murdered in a bath of blood by Clue,
When I wanted to perfectly write you out like Scrabble’s oxyphenbutazone.


And from your decaying mouth came spiders a plenty, 
Swiftly crawling up my aching spine. 
Whispering webs of potential truths: 
That you were never meant for me,
Nor I for you.




Olivia Emerick




Casual Tea   [DU]


Last night I dreamed I was running
across the ashen craters of the Western Front.
The enemy had retreated and the doctor
told me that a Body had died.

“All are buried or home for tea
but a doctor works in between.
The war is won, and I am done.
And so It is.” Somebody’s son.


I ran for hours like a Peloponnesian
through the black earth stricken
by gas, and over trenches
as wide as the Rubicon,
choked with piles of singed meat
decomposed too fast.


Until,
by the shadow of a tree,
reclined like a Caesar
in the mortar-tilled dirt,
I found the Body.


“Oh, thank God almighty,”
the pallid Body said,
“you came here to save me!”
(It was not very dead).




Neal Bold








Semele to Zeus   [DU] 


Am I wrong to want to know you?


To want the weight
of your name
on my tongue? 


Baby                 Angel
        Lover                Darling


can’t fill the ache— 
my lips longing
to curve to your 
shape, to feel
you tense in
my jaw.


You say my name like it means something. 


Let me return the favor, 
split your beauty 
into syllables
so that I can swallow
you. 


Want to see you. 
Undressed, 
façade folded neatly
at the end of my bed. 
Stripped to your bones— 
        Would they be shell,
like the mussels I 
collected in summers 
at Lake Yliki? Or 
magma, molten rock 
that melts the skin
off my fingers
as it slips from
my grasp?— 
left with no theatrics, 
no disguise, 
nothing but the heat
pooling behind 
your eyes, ready 
to devour flesh 
or nightdress. 


You have me. 


Let me feel 
I have you too.




Lexie Slotterbeck


















































When Pluto Killed the Sun


Today we saw Pluto
lose his mind in the
depths of space,
screaming words indecipherable 
from millions of miles away.
He screamed at the Sun,
and fury overtook him
when that great ball of fire
ignored him, a cold, impotent dwarf.


So Pluto howled loud
so all could hear,
FUCK THIS!
and flew straight at the
Sun, breaking all the barriers of 
sound, time, and space.
The Sun didn’t even get a chance
to turn around;
by the time he heard Pluto coming,
his name had been changed to
Supernova.


It was a strange day.
They say Pluto’s not 
a planet anymore,
did you hear?






Ethan Barrows










Questions for My Grandmother After the Invasion         [DU]


Remember when you said, 
you never want to live 
through a war? 


What if there’s already 
been an invasion? What 
if I didn’t run away?
What if I stayed, 
paralyzed, while they
seized, took me
and my people
and my clothes?


Am I complicit?


How did you 
know when 
to escape? 


Did you buy a ticket
overseas before 
or after the first 
bomb dropped? 
Did you wait 
to see if they 
were bluffing
before you 
uprooted?


How do you ask 
for shelter— 
what if they 
don’t want 
to let you in?


What if they see you
covered in blood
and think you 
drew it? 
Regardless 
of the source
or your tears 
it is your fault 
it is yours. 


If I cannot flee, 
is that consent? 


And if I am able
to flee, after all
that I’ve seen, 
how do I go back
to before?


To before the bombs
and the freeze and 
the way that it burns  
your neck and the blood
the way it clings to your clothes
and your skin that you can’t 
take off, but you keep trying
you’re trying, but even when 
you’re clean you swear that 
you can still see it crusted, 
now brown, under your finger-
nails and what if you were
never really clean to start with? 


Are there pills 
for the tremors? 
Will they help me
sleep? 


How do you sleep?






Lexie Slotterbeck












The Totalitarian Tortoise        [DU]


(Chorus enters)
With rue the heart is laden
A divine retelling of atrocities committed
Now commences


He harbored hatred 
Inwardly—in his innards 
Establishing Empire
Illegitimately
Through Treacherous Trials


That Galapagos!
Connived and Canoodled
(Indeed, so sensual a sin)
The previous powerful possessor 


~Slow and steady 
Wins the race~


Release was requested
And refused 
so that "Testudinidae of the order Testudines"
Hatched a hellish coup


Late one evenin'
The old beloved king
he was a'sleeping


When a noise was blasted, oh so near
Indeed, indeed it broke his ear
(You see, he was a praying mantis)


Painful, horrid it was 
But not as illicit as 
The finale 


The terrapin 
Let loose
A formidable flatulence 


And the lasting line of Mantis
Fell
“Acute asphyxiation,” 
The coroner did decree
“Was the means of slaughter”


Yet no one knew
Who done did it 


Took the throne 
Did the doer of the deed 
Repressing the residents of the world
While relishing prickly pear cacti


Deaf to the anguished cries
As he slept 
Sixteen hours of the day!


And the other eight
He spent trying to get from his bed to his toilet
An oxygen mask affixed to his face
So as to not meet an early end 
Brought on by the self


Much suffering set forth
In the coming decades
The rights of the islanders infringed upon....
Formulated in fear
Not consensus
Was his rule


Stalin paled in comparison
Mussolini would have blushed 
Big Brother, synonym in a thesaurus 
For a twisted, totalitarian, flatulent tortoise!


(Chorus Exits)
                                                        Tommy Milutin






Personification of Abandoned Broccoli    


I am in the middle of the hall
Alienated from by brethren 
By the cruel fates
Many have passed 
Without a glance 


I just want to be seen 
And disposed of by loving hands 
At least then I will have been held


Help




Tommy Milutin










































Papa Playing Monopoly In The Kitchen         [DU]


He always loved being the boat,
my older brother, the dog, but I, the watcher,
Just tall enough to see who’s winning.


I sit there with apple-sliced daydreams
of owning both the Boardwalk 
and Park Place, getting out of jail free,
and pulling an “Advance to GO” card.


Instead, I get sent directly to jail,
the ‘den’ as Nona calls it,
where dusty waxen hour and minute hands
marked ‘Crayola’ spin round and round
as I try and make the most 
Of some half-filled-outside-the-lines Pinocchio coloring book.






Joey Pelgro






































Liar                      [DU] [ES]


I call my dad
“If you’re hearing me it means
I couldn’t get to the phone.
Sorry, leave a message and 
I’ll get back to you 
soon.”


It’s almost father’s day.


You lie 
like a surfaced fish, 
mouth gapped open, jaw hanging low. 
You were so pale 
and clammy. Limp drooping 
wrist.


My floppy rubber doll. 


I died alone. Early 
in the morning, before the sun
could rise or set. I stretch
you, so you lie 
on your back. Has it stopped 
hurting? You can 
come home. I’m not 
angry anymore. 


Resentment seemed to have loosened 
its leash. Still no answer. 
No new messages just a hollow clatter. 
Your bones rot somewhere 
in the earth. But, you’re not there.
You’re not there. 


Remember in December when you lied
every time I’d call you. You left
Your phone at home again. I can’t reach 
You. It was always a hassle trying
to reach you. I’m tired 
of waiting for you. Do you hear me? Call 
me when you get this. Call me back
please. 


I’ll get back to you. I’ll get back to you. I’ll get back – 
Sorry. I couldn’t - get back to you – back to you. You. Leave
a message and I’ll get back– I’ll get back to you. I’ll get back to you. I’ll get back to you. I’ll get back to you soon.






Liar.










Vincent Flannery 










































Stains    [DU]


The old house won’t sell,
It’s been up for ages.
Dozens of viewers,
A pushy agent,
No offers.
I think it’s because of the stains.
There are stains everywhere in that house;
In all the rooms on the walls, the floor,
Even the curtains are full of them. 
I see them most on your old chair,
Huge blots of sadness sunken into the leather,
No one wants to sit on sadness, 
It smells.
Mum says she doesn’t know what I’m talking about,
But she does.
I’ve seen her staring at them before 
on the photo frames in the corridor as you come in the front door. 
They’re bad there as well, 
Almost so bad that you can’t look at the photographed faces for too long 
Or your eyes will start to sting.
We’ve tried a few different cleaners, 
But even after all the scrubbing and steaming;
You’re still there.
I think you always will be. 


You’ve stained my life as well,
In a much bigger way than if it were just
With tea or tears,
I hope you know that. 
A stain so big it’s burnt through my fabric,
Like bleach through clothes catching the skin,
Drills through teeth touching the nerve - 
I always feel you.
In big moments,
I feel sick
Because you’re missing them.
In small moments, I think about the big moments you’ll miss. 
So many moments you’ve missed and will miss. 
Sometimes I feel consumed by it,
Like you’ve eaten me and taken me with you,
Wherever you went.
I worry sometimes that the stain will wash away,
That you’ll come out in sneezes or something,
And I won’t be able to remember you as clearly.
Maybe that’s inevitable.
For now though, the stains are stuck 
To the curtains of our old house 
And the insides of my eyelids as I sleep.






Millie Stock






















































Any bar, anywhere, any time       [DU]


When the crowd moved forward, 
a jungle of enraged animals swallowed 
my over-conscious body. 


Beer bottles clattered and clanged, 
while a Babel tower of voices weaved 
forging a parachute of sounds. 


The floor was sticky, as were the sweat
drops sliding from the barman’s forehead,
like rain on filthy windows in the attic. 


Flashes of muted TVs flustered
the claustrophobic hovel I was dragged into,
disorienting my symmetrical thought. 


I smelled mediocre lives passing by, 
and locked eyes with foggy minds that danced
with faint fuzzy smiles.  


I should have gulped down acid, 
like these beasts with foaming grins 
but instead I breathed in 


and fenced myself in a bubble. 
I was invisible in a room of 
invisibles.




Valentina Serri
















Waning    [DU]


Sometimes I eat candle wax
because the soft melt clogs my throat,
lines the sides of my esophagus like drainpipe leaves,
so I am left sputtering.


I dip each finger pad into the hot silken liquid,
little helmets on calloused skin that trace my cheeks,
as you ask again, Do you love me?






I suck my fingers clean.






Megan Cresitello














































Back Burner      [DU]


You basked in the orange glow,
pretending it was a Hawaiian sunset,
grinning or grimacing, baring your teeth 
as sparking flames hacked away at your nerve endings.


You never minded that back left stove grate 
that ticked, ticked, ticked to life
        because you knew I needed         
the one up front.                        Did I really?


I grew so comfortable in that space, 
up front,
I just couldn’t give it up.


You enveloped me in a hug
and my arm reached behind you to turn up 
the burner’s dial: 
400 degrees.
You writhed, feeling its heat, and I watched and sobbed.


I could have taken a step closer, 
let the tears extinguish,
pulled at your charred remains and
dusted away the ashes. 
I’m so sorry. I’m so sorry.


Instead, I took a step back and watched you
like you were a Hawaiian sunset,
and this is my apology.






Megan Cresitello
________________
On mortality     [DU]


I sit here, embracing that special strain
Of mortality late at night,
Like catching a falling knife.
But suddenly it was you
that slipped through and slit my fingers.


And now I resort to grasping, reaching
With marled and infected hands
For the rope of reality to pull me out
Of this involuntary stream of consciousness.
I was fine to stew in death
And marinate in imagined emotion for the future.


But memories,
Memories once again bring me intimate with collapse
And I float away like a loose balloon
Into the vast, unending horizon
Of my discontent.




Sarah Glasfeld


































59th Street [HB] [CD] [ES]    by Holly Branco
hi Paul, Art,
that was scary.         mirror fog
square                            shadow                     blear
 who ?
grey dark                                  light                                          shapes
                                what
        took                                      the                                          place


                    of                                                                                        where 


        someone i thought                        should have been
      
                            scratched                                shadows
                             obsidian                                  sockets


        they                                                                                    looked        
        


           wrong                                            alien                                        foreign
          dead                                        no,         not                                 dead


        
                   just                                                                     things


                                        something scribbled
                                                itself


                                         toy                                         story
                                        but                        just
                                                    one
                            toy                                                    and
                           one                                                  mirror.


                          fog                                                      ink
                              ink                                                      thing
                         thing                                                        i
                                                        
Now,                        59th Street.                                Feel Groovy.                             feel


                                 My Poor Mother [DU]


In a past life, she was a dancer. Even the way she stood in long lines was poised and elegant. And no part of her was rigid. Just soft, warm, and very alive. She was tall and long-limbed and like some sort of beautiful freak. But what separated her from the rest—what made my mother my mother—was how she conflated that poise with power and the picturesque. It was her showstopping act, it’s what made her complete.
She told me about a place that truly felt like a home, wherein every room were erected mirrors instead of walls. And there was a beauty to it: for those mirrors made it impossible for a dancer to escape herself. She explained that in a studio, you had to make peace with you and your whole being—that was every good dancer’s secret. Learned technique and fundamentals: they were mere frivolities! What mattered most was the understanding that she performed for something even greater than the audience and its shiny applause.
So, when my mother danced, she danced for everyone, but especially for herself. She took pride in the ways her feet etched their patterns into the wooden floors. The ways her ears listened only for the accompaniment, her most dynamic of dance partners, in whichever way it pleased. The ways her mind came together with body to deliver confidence, intentionality. And with elongated arms and legs, she stretched to the corners at which each mirror met. She could hold up the ceiling if you asked her to. 
It was those days she missed the most; the days she leapt with no intention of ever landing. She longed for the place where she could be free again. She absolutely yearned for it. Because then and there, her body was no instrument, nobody ever played her, she assured me. She was in control. It was all she ever knew, dancing through life with an outstretched hand. Take my lead, it beckoned.
            Before she was my mother, she was his partner. And before that, a whole woman. A whole woman I’ve never met yet still find myself missing. That would twirl to the ends of the earth if the music only asked her to. Before the one who first told her the world was her stage. Before he scoffed at her ability to dance out of every mess he made.
            It was after the first time he raped her that she lost her ability to dance. It was how she lost her legs and how he took them over and over and over again until she didn’t even want them. She laid there, for hoursdaysyears, simply used and discarded. With bleak stoicism, she’d tell me that even in his absence his weight still pinned her legs to the bed they shared. How could they betray me like that? she wondered, thinking of all the places they had taken her before. But the more it happened, the more it made sense: If they weren’t strong enough to stay closed, then how would they ever dance me out of this life?
            It only got worse once he took her arms, for she no longer embraced the world. His grip was always the tightest on her. On two arms that carried only pure intentions and beautiful stories, arms so full of life they even took their own breaths: with each contraction, an inhale. Each extension, an exhale. But before long, he had cut her long, long arms so short. Without wings, she could not fly. And he knew damn well that the weight of carrying me, too, kept her heavy and grounded.
            As I grew, she grew. What was left of her swelled up like a balloon and for the most part she liked it; perhaps if she got big enough, she would float up and out a window never to look down on this wretched home again. In her pregnancy, I cherished the many restless nights we shared, they were an excuse for her to dream out loud. She’d tell me, If he returned my legs I would not run, but leap. If he returned my arms, I would not fight, but fly. That was where her power lied, in her ability to move and shake, but that’s also why his tactics were so effective. Oh, how I can only wish to know my mother as well as my father does!
            Truly, all I ever knew of him was what I heard from inside her. His words only pierced; with venom that first muddied her bloodstream then mine. I imagined absolutely no dancer able to move to his arrhythmic accusations. And because his volume, alone, was paralyzing enough, these talks of theirs soon became one-way conversations with only the mere guise of exchange: an occasion that would leave me wondering where my poor mother had gone. All night, she talked. But here and now and forever, she was rendered speechless.
            Before long, only the bits and pieces of her remained, giving little semblance to her past self. It was unfair of her to hate the parts that had once made her whole, so she envied them instead, for they had a terrible habit of leaving and never looking back. Take her neck, for example. He called it sexy, so she always hung jewels from it. This was where she kept safe her voice—the music that I danced to. And out of that vase bloomed his favorite target, her beautiful mind. Until he starved it from all sun and water. 
For a while, just two lips hung lifelessly. Two chapped and bloodied fixtures on a blank and tired face. But when they shriveled up as quickly as they withered away, she felt no need to frown like so many times before. 
Why listen, if life’s melody only reminds me of how I cannot dance to it? she then thought before giving up her ears. 
            The only power she now yielded was a similar kind to his; she simply willed the rest of herself away until I was all she had left. It wasn’t worth it; she would’ve told me if she could. Because even if she could leap and she could fly and she could make it to those mirrored rooms just once more, reflected back at her would be nothing. Because with his help, she had done the impossible, she lost the only thing worth dancing for. 


















                                 Trial By Poison [DU]


I am not a stupid man. I may be referred to as such, given the years spent as a peasant, a lowly stonemason’s apprentice, and criminal, but what I lacked in classical training, I made up for in the unorthodox and unethical.


Theft was always my crime of choice, ever since I was a boy. I had to, you see, to survive; food was scarce in my home, so we needed to take what we could get, when we could get it. Every crusty slice of bread and half-rotten apple left alone was a mouth unfed. When I grew, I realized that stealing the odd crumb or two was not a permanent solution; stealing and selling things, however, could buy lots of food. Money would fix all of my problems, cure all of my ills. So I decided to rob the Benedictine monastery.


The Abbey was a familiar place to me; I had been there many a time. My brother Cedric was a monk there, before the Plague took him to the Lord. His very grave was there, in the central courtyard, a simple, plain tombstone planted firmly in the ground, a cross carved into it, in the shade of a willow for all eternity next to other fallen brothers. I had fashioned the headstone myself. His is not the way in which I want to die, but I hope to one day forever rest in such a beautiful place as he. Anyways, this monastery was a barren place, empty, just as all monasteries should be. There was, however, the exception of the abbot’s quarters. In his room, rather than a plain bed with white sheets, there stands a glorious four poster bed with red silk curtains, tied to the posts with golden ropes. I remember it as if it was only a fortnight ago; after Cedric’s burial, my poor mother was inconsolable, so much so that she could barely stand and felt faint. The abbot, whom she had known very well, pulled her and I into his room and sat her down on the bed so she could calm down in peace and privacy. He then quickly left us alone. I remember seeing the bed and being blinded by rage. Cedric would always write home about life at the monastery, how humble it was. Not unlike how we lived the early parts of our lives, but with more to eat, at least. He was in love with monastic life, every aspect of it; the prayer, the reflection, the work, the chores. I remember the first letter he wrote to us. 


Dearest mother and brother,


I pray this letter finds the pair of you happy and healthy. I assure you I am fine, mother, and that I try my very best every day to become the next saint in the canon. This life suits me well, better than smithing ever did. The monks have embraced me with open and inviting arms, and I have found a sense of peace and security among those like myself. We are all equals here, and we treat each other as such. Cursed be any man who breaks the sacred vow of monastic equality! Visit soon.


Fare thee as well as I fare,
Cedric


The equality of all monks in the monastery meant the world to Cedric. Seeing those extravagant and expensive curtains filled me with a burning hatred for the abbot. And so I waited. I waited for years and years, waiting for the Lord to strike the sinful abbot down, to smite him where he stood and make true Cedric’s false perception about the monastery. That day never came. Solstice after solstice passed, and the abbot continued to draw breath from his kingly bed. Five years of waiting later, my dear mother took her final breath on a warm Spring day in our home. I had nothing to do except mourn. It was then that I began to form my plan. 


The monastery was eighteen miles from my home. It was a simple strategy, really. From my correspondence with my brother all those years ago, I knew when the monks retreated to the chapel for prayer. Nighttime prayer, though it would grant me the cloak of darkness, would be too precarious, as there are always monks who are too aged or infirmed to get out of bed and walk to the chapel; they would surely hear me if I were to be opening doors and such. Movement in the courtyard during the day, however, would be of no consequence. I therefore planned to visit my brother’s grave during sext, when the Sun is at its peak in the sky, and it was then that I would make for the abbot’s chambers and take from him his undeserved gift from the Pope, he claimed once. Before I could make that journey, though, I needed a horse. Luckily, the man who lives next-door had one, a taupe, slow old mare that he no longer rode. When the day came to execute my plan, I rose hours before even the farmers, saddled his horse, and rode into the darkness. 


When I reached the monastery, the last of the monks were walking in silent formation to the chapel. I had picked the perfect time to enter. I passed the armed guards supplied by the local lord and knelt in front of Cedric. The willow cast his headstone in a great shade, which made the grass pleasantly cool on my knees. I traced the simple cross in the stone with my finger. Deep in thought and remembrance, I returned to reality when the clock tower bells rang out. Upon the twelfth, I rose from Cedric’s resting place and made my way to the abbot’s room, just across the courtyard. I put my ear to the heavy oak door. No sound came from inside. I slowly pushed it ajar and peeked inside.


The room had not changed in five years. The bed hadn’t moved even an inch, and those curtains hung there, mocking me. Moving inside, I quietly shut the door behind me, taking my knife from my side. I jumped onto the bed with my dirty boots, soiling the  pristine white sheets, and slashed at the ropes holding the curtains. In seconds, the kingly drapes fell into my arms, light as air. To have accomplished my goal, to have avenged Cedric; the feeling was incomparable. 


The clinking of chain mail. Whispers behind the door. The drawing of a sword. I didn’t recall there being guards at the monastery last time, truth be told. The door slammed open and the two armed guards, followed by the abbot, barged in and commanded me to surrender, thief, so that no harm would come to me. Numb, I stepped off the bed and let the silk curtains drain from my hands. They ordered me to drop my knife; I had forgotten about it. I dropped it, and they advanced, forcing me to my knees. One tied my hands behind my back while the other pulled a grain sack over my head. As the burlap covered my eyes, the last thing I remember seeing was the abbot’s face, filled with horror and disappointment. The guard tying my hands bashed my head with his hilt, and I fell into a deep sleep.
______________________________________________________________________


I awoke in a moving cart, tied and bleeding, blind except for the faint light shining through the bag on my head. I asked the driver, whoever that may have been, where they were taking me, and why I was blinded. They responded with their fist to my face, and once again the darkness of deep sleep embraced me.
______________________________________________________________________


I awoke next in a cell, hands unbound, face uncovered. The cell was quite small, with a simple bed of straw, a thin blanket, and a hole in the corner meant for the less clean actions of everyday life. The floor, walls, and ceiling were made of plain cobblestone, and the thick iron bars showed no sign of yielding, nor did the door made of the same bars and locked with a ghastly padlock. Across the way from my cell was a lone lit candle mounted on the wall. Given the cold and gloomy nature of my surroundings, I surmised that I had been taken to a dungeon of some sort. I began to yell, just to get somebody’s attention. After a few moments of silence, heavy footsteps sounded above me, and I heard as that person slowly trudged across the floor and opened a heavy door, making his way down the spiral staircase to my left. The man who then stood in front of me was quite the sight; a hulking, muscular man with angry brows and a nasty sneer. He looked down at me with contempt, silently asking me why I had disturbed him. I asked him where they had taken me, and what for. A petty attempted theft shouldn’t mean kidnapping. He grunted, spit, and slowly climbed the stairs, once again leaving me with my thoughts. I sat, my back to the cool stone wall, and despaired. How disappointed Cedric would be in me, and in the abbot as well; regret encased my entire being.


In the hours following my silent encounter with the brute, I entertained myself by examining my own body. I held my hands up to my face, and was presented with the hands of a laborer: permanent dirt resided underneath my fingernails, my knuckles forever bruised from dropping many a stone on them. I ran them through my dark straw-like hair, unwashed for weeks, long enough to cover my eyes if I allowed it to do so. As I moved my hands over my face, I could feel the dark bags sullying my hazel eyes and my crooked nose. My teeth were the only thing that belonged in high society. Gabriel, my stonemason mentor, had taught me how to maintain them with a simple mixture of sage leaves and charcoal, rinsed out with water. I smiled at the memory of Gabriel, the man who had taught me to read and write. He was a good man, a better man than his apprentice. I had failed him.


I dozed off. When I awoke, there stood in front of me a group of men. The frontmost was Lord Jaquet Beaumont, a righteous man of French origin. He stood tall, draped in fine maroon robes, making sure to keep distance from the caged animal. The candle behind him placed a shining halo upon his head. Flanking him were four of his knights, clothed in standard chain mail and bearing the Beaumont crest, a crimson lion over a golden fleur de lis. Fine steel swords sat threateningly in their scabbards, begging to be drawn. At the bottom of the stairs stood the brute, unblinking. One of the knights handed Beaumont a scroll, and he read it aloud. 


On this twentieth day of June in the one-thousand five-hundred and seventy-eighth year of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, you, Everard William Payne, for thievery, trespassing, and the attempted assassination of Abbot Richardis, are hereby sentenced to death by hanging.


I collapsed in dismay. Assassination of a church official was a grave offense, and though it was never my intention and my blade was never bloodied, I was powerless to defend myself. They found me on his bed with a knife. I expected him to walk away then, until he gathered me for my execution, but Beaumont remained. He spoke once again, giving me an alternative option.


You could, instead, agree to be an integral part of a trial. We require a subject to test the effectiveness of the bezoar against the deadly poison aconite. If you should agree, we will use your body as a gateway to greater medicine, for the better of the common people. In the event of your survival, you will be released, free to do as you please and cleared of all charges.


The illusion of choice. If I refused, I would be the test subject all the same, so I agreed. Better a slim chance of life than certain death.
______________________________________________________________________


I had always been slender, but Beaumont wanted me thin and vulnerable to the aconite’s effects. Thus, he restricted my meals to one piece of bread and a goblet of water each day. A month I waited in my cell for the aconite to test me.


As that day came creeping close and closer, I tried not to think about what would happen should I survive the trial. I would have the chance to try stonemasonry again, find a woman, maybe, and settle down in the city. Have a few kids, leave something behind on this Earth worth living for, a legacy. Before any of that, though, I first had to endure natural torture worse than hanging.


My body was decrepit. My ribs bulged out of my chest, so much so that I could place my skeletal hands between them. I was stunningly weak, more so than a newborn lamb, and with legs half as thick. I was awoken by the sound of heavy footfalls on the stairs.


The four knights and the brute, followed by Beaumont and a man I had never seen before, a small, squirrelly man with no hair on his head and spectacles sitting on his nose, which rested atop a gray goatee like the Italians wore. Beaumont introduced him as Doctor Bertoli, the man who would conduct the experiment.


With that introduction, Bertoli quickly beckoned me to the bars and examined me. He checked my eyes, the inside of my mouth, and glanced at my ribs, after which he declared in his nasally, broken English that I was fit for testing. From his bag, he pulled aconite roots and a mortar and pestle, grinding them up in front of me. When ground to completion, the roots were placed in a goblet of water and stirred. It was then handed to me.


I started at the concoction for quite some time. I didn’t know what it would do to me, only that I would likely die from it. I looked up from the cup to see the expectant stare of the seven men in front of me. The cup in my hands, I prayed before drinking it to completion. Then, we waited.


They didn’t have to wait long for the poison to take effect. Mere hours later, I felt something was amiss within me. I became aware of my heart beating quickly, so quickly that it began to ache terribly. My face and hands lost all feeling. My brain began to pound. I felt my blood thicken. Sweat appeared on every inch of flesh. My head felt light, and I felt faint often. I tried to pray, pray that I would make it through the night and see the morning sky as a free man again. There were intense periods of both heat and cold, yet the sweat persisted through both of them. Very quickly after the poison took effect, I stripped what little rags I wore as clothes from my body and threw myself to the cool ground, trying to rid myself of this hellish heat. After a pitiful second of relief, the stone floor became molten, and I was engulfed in an internal blaze that must have rivaled Hell itself. The whole time, Bertoli sat on a wooden stool just outside the cell while Beaumont paced back and forth in the hallway, stopping briefly whenever a cry left my mouth before carrying on. 


As the night progressed, I fell further and further into delirium. I began to see visions. A banquet table full of the finest of food and drink that stood in front of me. On it were things eaten only by royalty, cuisine from far-off lands, and each bite and sip caused me more and more agony in my stomach, yet I couldn’t stop. I saw Cedric walk from me, dressed in his robes, toward a doorway of light; with every step I ran toward him, he got farther and farther away. I ran for so long that my limbs ached and stiffened, and I fainted a number of times. I was shown a corpse, a skinny brown haired man lying dead. His back was to me, but from where I was standing, I could see hundreds of bugs crawling on his skin, and that he was in a pool of his own blood. Stepping closer, the corpse rolled over and stared at me. There was blood spewing from every hole in my corpse’s face, and the bugs were already consuming my flesh. I vomited, over and over, until the visions went away and I was left once again on the rough stone floor. I cried out to my captors. 


Rather would I die now than live another moment like this. Help me, or I will surely die!


Bertoli calmly set down his quill and rose from his stool, reached into his pack and pulled from it the bezoar, my supposed salvation. A small and smooth beige stone, it looked wholly insignificant and indecipherable from any other rock that sat upon on the Earth. Taking too a small sharp blade from his pack, Bertoli shaved off flakes of the bezoar into a goblet of wine that he had sent for. He stirred it with the knife, and after letting it settle for a brief minute, gave it to me to drink.


I drank. It tasted earthy, like I was drinking from an unclean well. After minutes of relative peace, I was struck by horrible sickness once again. My muscles began to rapidly expand and contract, my eyes rolled up and down again and again, and I gasped for air as if my lungs had collapsed. The last thing I recall before I feel into deep, fitful sleep was the watchful gazes of Bertoli and Beaumont, and between them the flicker of candlelight.
______________________________________________________________________ 


My nightmares were tinged in the purple of the aconite flower. The indigo fog around me sat thick upon the air, closing my throat and blinding me, but as the effects of the bezoar reached out to the end of my limbs, I felt it thin. The thickness subsided, the poison had run its course on my body. I slowly cracked open my eyes and  I awoke on the stone floor once again, but clothed. Tentatively, I sat up and took inventory of my body. No longer did my face and limbs feel numb, no longer did my head, stomach, or heart ache, and no longer was there a perpetual sweat on my skin. Bertoli and Beumont were nowhere to be found, and the door to my cell was unlocked and open. On terribly shaky legs, I stood and limped out into the hall. The only way to go was up the stairs.


At the top, there was the Hall of the estate. A grandiose room, decorated with beautifully crafted wooden furniture and metal can There sat Beaumont, flanked again by two of his men, who at the sight of me placed their hands on their hilts. Beaumont waved them off.


Everard William Payne, I hereby resolve you of any crimes you have committed. You are free to do as you like, as it seems God has given you a second chance. Leave, and may you never see another cell as long as you live.


He gestured to a small bag on the table next to him. I shuffled to it, grabbed the strangely heavy package, and was escorted to the front doors. They slammed closed behind me.


Opening the bag, I found a small yet considerable sum of gold coins. In any other circumstance, I would have thanked God for this incredible boon. I dropped the bag in disgust and walked away from Beaumont’s estate, toward the sunrise, where I knew my home to be.


Was it luck? Was it a gift from God? I know not, but I know that I wish I had perished in that dark cell. I would have drank all the poison in the world just to die, to be free of responsibility. Free of difficulty. 


Cedric would laugh at me, tell me that each day on Earth is a chance to prove myself worthy of Heaven. 


Heaven. As if I would ever reach there.


After a day of nonstop travel, I found my home burnt to cinders. Perhaps neighbors did it, perhaps God himself during a vicious storm. I will never know. From nothing I came, and to even less I returned, a criminal who survived torture stronger than God. I can only hope that my suffering was worthwhile for others.












































 Jumping Someone Else’s Train: An Anarchist Cheerleader Talks Alt Music [DU]


Music is one of the first forms of individuality we have. 


Joanne Hoban’s musical track record is about as individual and eclectic as it gets. Known for singing Drake songs to annoy her husband and dancing to Dua Lipa while driving, it’s hard to believe she used to listen to a very different kind of music. 


I ask, “What are the five songs you’d have on the soundtrack to your life?”


Joanne immediately says “Jumping Someone Else's Train” by The Cure. After some thought, she also lists “Con te partiro” by Andrea Bocelli, “Mr. Sun” (the children’s song),''Your Love” by The Outfield, and “I Hope You Dance” by Lee Ann Womack. 


When asked how she came by music as a method of communication, Joanne says she never really thought about it. She used to go to concerts with her older brother, Jay. He took her to see The Hooters and Michael Jackson—her first big introductions to music. 


Joanne’s mother loved the classics—the Beatles, Carly Simon. Her brother loved rock—Rush and The Hooters. 


To me, she will always be connected to the alternative music of the 1980s. Her name is synonymous with bands like Blondie, Dead Milkmen, and​​ The Cure.


So, where did the alternative streak come from?
Joanne got into alternative music at fourteen because of a guy. 


For anyone who knows her, this is a shock. This is a woman who would never do anything for a guy. But, when you’re fourteen, you listen to the kind of music your crush likes so you have something to talk to him about. 


The music came about after meeting him in a dance club for fourteen year-olds and older. The music there was the poppy-clubby mix—not exactly their speed. They would talk on the phone, and “and sit outside the house on 15th street with [her] boombox, and listen to U2 or The Cure.” 


Joanne says, “I think by then I definitely knew who those bands were, but I think I definitely was exposed to more because of him. And he probably pushed me further into the alternative.” 


Her music, initially a way that she tried to connect with her crush, became a huge part of her personality and personal experiences. Because of where she grew up—Mapleshade, New Jersey—Joanne had a fascination with being different. 


It won’t take you long / To learn the new smile / You have to adapt or you’ll be out of style / It’s always the same / You’re jumping someone else’s train  (The Cure 0:56-1:06).


Joanne says, “I was such a snotty bitch. It was—in my mind—so pedestrian and beneath me that I really didn't want to like what everybody else liked. So there was something wildly appealing about being different than everybody else and not conforming.” 


While Joanne considered herself “quite the vigilante,” looking back, she really wasn’t. She calls her younger self “the anarchist, alternative music cheerleader who is in the National Honors Society. Not exactly the problem child.” But, the appeal is “thinking you’re not conforming.” 


Don’t say what you mean / You might spoil your face / If you walk in the crowd / You won’t leave any trace / It’s always the same / You’re jumping someone else’s train (The Cure 0:37-0:48).


It’s no surprise that as a teenager she wanted to avoid conforming to the rules. Joanne’s anti-conformity used to manifest in her physical appearance. She used to have really short, curly hair. She had dyed the tendril that curved under her chin blonde. She wore a lot of black, and a distinct denim jacket completely covered in safety pins and other pins she liked. 


Joanne’s mom didn’t really mind. While teenage Joanne may have dressed a bit like an over-sized bat, she still brought home good grades, was the President of New Jersey DECA, and an athlete. 


Joanne doesn’t look alternative anymore. She is wearing a pale pink sleeveless blouse, black dress pants, and dark brown ballet flats. Her red hair is pulled back in a low ponytail. She laughs—sea green eyes crinkled—as she pushes her reading glasses onto her head—a familiar action. She has just shown me a photo of her high school haircut as we chat at a high top table in Cityworks. 


The alternative music of the 1980s still has a special place in her heart, but Joanne acknowledges that she doesn’t listen to it as much anymore. She considers it “just a change in situation.” As you get older, “you move away from it a little bit,” even though she can still rap the entirety of “Rapture.” 
The self-professed renegade found herself thinking about law school in her third year of college. A job that seems perfect for the fast-talking redhead sitting in front of me, Joanne had never really thought about being a lawyer before joining the Trial Team at Franklin Pierce University in New Hampshire. 


She later attended Suffolk Law School in Boston, Massachusetts. Joanne is a practicing medical malpractice attorney for Morrison Mahoney, heading the Worcester branch. 


Joanne says, “for somebody who was supposed to be such a renegade, I'm kind of a rules person, so the confining nature of things is probably good for me.” She likes the code of conduct and formulaic process of law. 


While Joanne let her blonde streak grow out during college and law school, she never lost connection with the music she loved as a teen. She raised her daughter to identify The Smiths and Blondie by ear by age eight. She kept the pins she used to wear on her safety pin jacket, but now they decorate her blazers instead. 


Well, some of them do. Joanne gave some pins to her daughter to put on her own jacket. 


My mom made sure to teach me her alternative music. 


We’ve seen Blondie and Elvis Costello, Echo and the Bunnymen, and the Violent Femmes together. Some of my best memories with my mom are jamming to The Cure in the middle of our kitchen, yelling the words to “Seven Seas” in the Orpheum, and dancing with her to “Dreaming” at a Blondie concert—all with my jacket on. 












Works Cited


Hoban, Joanne. Personal interview. 20 October 2021. 
The Cure. “Jumping Someone Else’s Train.” Boys Don’t Cry. Fiction Records, 1979. Vinyl, 
Digital.
                                         First Blood  [DU]


        Three days after her mom died, Katie got her period in the slimy stall of her local public pool, in which she was sitting on the toilet with her one-piece bathing suit pulled all the way down, warm blood on her fingers and cold air brushing over the knobs of her spine, poking out severely because of her hunched-over position, and a part of Katie found it funny, that she’d be getting her period for the first time only days after a quick colon cancer stole her mother, but that part huddled deep within Katie, maybe somewhere below her third rib down, right next to the part of her that was too sad to be out at the pool in July with her friends who had living mothers and hadn’t bled yet, but Katie pushed those parts down with grim determination, so she was at the pool and sitting unlaughing on the toilet, no matter how sad she was or how hilarious she found the period-right-after-mom’s-death occurrence, but even though she wasn’t laughing, no matter how bad she wanted to, Katie was still shaking because her whole upper torso was damp and exposed and her bare feet were resting lightly on the cool tile beneath her, and also because she didn’t have a tampon and she didn’t know what to do, and even if she did have a tampon she would have no idea how to use it, because she bet the period talk was being planned for yesterday, or the day before, or any of the days in the week since her mother’s passing, because that would be just Katie’s luck, to have a dying mother who planned on teaching her about tampons just twenty-four to forty-eight hours too late, and whose own death came just before the beginning of the period, not allowing enough time for a benign aunt or a bumbling father to wonder “Oh, shit! Has anybody talked to Katie about..?” before sympathetically taking her aside and embarrassing them both, and although Katie hoped that maybe, her mom, like a character in a movie, made videos before she died for each monumental moment in Katie’s life that she knew she was going to miss, so that Katie could watch, crying, on prom night, or the day before her wedding, or when she had her first child, or when she was sitting in a slimy public bathroom stall with blood running between her thighs and no idea what the fuck to do, her mother makeup-less but strikingly beautiful on the screen, Katie knew that this wasn’t the case, because her mom was not pretty while she died, and instead sported sunken cheeks and dark circles under her eyes and a quick, mean tongue and a surprisingly sharp grip for a woman going through chemo, with brittle, malnourished nails barely holding onto pale skin, lacking a perfect high ponytail and any sort of bubbliness that she would’ve needed to be a woman in a movie who makes those kinds of videos, and Katie hadn’t even thought about getting her period at the time, so she didn’t ask her mom to make these videos in advance, or teach her about tampons from her hospital bed, so, really, it was her fault that she was stuck in that bathroom, bleeding like a pig and wanting to squeal like a pig and just feeling largely pig-like, dumb and pink and covered in slop, although “covered” is an exaggeration, and she wondered if maybe it’s not very feminist of her to think of her period blood as her body’s own slop because at thirteen she had just discovered Instagram feminism, which featured a host of pink infographics that taught her about the stigmatization of the menstrual cycle, often accompanied by cute cartoons of bloody tampons, and Katie thought that maybe that’s what she was doing, stigmatizing her own period, a self-stigmatization, a solo stigmatizing mission, but the more she said the word in her head the more confused she got because she was never really sure what it meant, and when she began to mumble the word aloud to herself in the stall, sitting on the toilet and repeating “Stigmatization. Stigmatization. Stigmatization” it began to sound less and less like a word, so eventually she felt as though she was speaking just to speak and she had nothing real to say after all, which, funnily enough, was something her mom used to say to her when Katie would stumble over her words and end up just saying what her mom called “Nothing sentences,” which usually went something like “Well, I think I did well, but I’m not really sure, it could go either way, you win some you lose some, life hands you lemons and sometimes you make lemonade and sometimes you let the lemons rot so bad that the skin and then flesh are devoured by mold, green green green, and sometimes you make lemonade out of those lemons, too, and sometimes you drink the lemonade and sometimes you don’t and you could get sick or you couldn’t and I could’ve failed my test or I could’ve passed my test I’m really not sure,” to which her mother would respond with “Jesus Christ, Katie. Say something!,” but when she tried to do then in the bloody bathroom stall, she couldn’t say “Stigmatization” for too long before it became nothing, and Katie wondered if, maybe, the words became nothing in her mouth, if they existed as something before she decided to say them but as soon as they touched her lips and her teeth they dissolved into a Lack a Loss an Absence, so that no matter what words she strung together every time they would mean nothing, or they wouldn’t mean anything, and then she wondered if getting her period had made her lose her damn mind because the problem at hand was not her inability to do or say anything meaningful—that could wait—, but rather the period happening right at that moment, a crisis between her legs, a feeling that she became familiar with upon the growth of her first pubic hair, black and shocking and deeply terrifying, which she mostly dealt with through avoidance, closed eyes and a refusal to look down, but that tactic, although well-practiced, could not help Katie in this situation, she knew, because avoiding it would mean waddling out of this bathroom and into the crowded chaos of the pool with blood smeared between her thighs and stained on the bottom half of her striped bathing suit, visible to everyone in the place, including her friends and their mothers and that boy, Alex, who was in her class and wore a too-big suit to her mom’s funeral and baggy white board shorts at the pool that made his dark skin glow, and, now that she thought about it, Katie realized that a lot of the people at the pool were at her mom’s funeral—Alex and her friends and their moms and Alex’s mom and Katie’s next-door neighbors and her science teacher, Ms. Allen, who, at the pool, wore a flowy sundress and stayed the whole time in her chair, wisely unwilling to display her body to the kids who went to her middle school—and Katie’s sure that if she walked out of that bathroom in a bloody suit they’d all stare, and the kids would giggle, until, eventually, one of the moms would rush over and wrap her in a patterned beach towel, maybe Scooby-Doo or SpongeBob-themed, and this would be worse than the staring and the laughing, this gently bruising touch of soft arms on her shoulders and the whisper of “Sweetie, do you need a tampon?” which, when responded to with a scared shake of the head, would be followed by “Oh, honey, I’ll grab one for you. We can figure it out together, okay?”; Katie was sure that she would hate it so much, the smell of the woman’s floral perfume so close to her face, the brush of the woman’s hair against Katie’s sticky cheek, that she would rip away from the woman and jump into the pool, kicking the towel away from her to swim across the lanes and into the ocean and out to the ends of the earth, where she’d be free to bleed in peace—this is was what she wanted to do at her mother’s funeral, when adults were looking at her with too much sadness and kids with too much awkwardness, so the only solution she could think up was to run to the sea and swim away, and, now that she thought about it, maybe she should leave this bathroom bleeding, so that people would know her as that girl instead of the one with the dead mom, and she wondered if her mom had made a video about what to do when you get your period, if she’d have included anything about this, the swimming and the gentle arms and the funeral-looks, but Katie’s pretty sure she wouldn’t’ve because her mom was calculating and smart and not very sensitive, and she didn’t have the patience for Katie’s powerful insecurities or her wild fantasies, but it didn’t matter, not really, and actually maybe it didn’t matter at all, because Katie’s mom didn’t make her any videos about getting your period for the first time, and then she died, and Katie still had no idea what to do in that bathroom, tampon-less and alone, so she curled up on the toilet, bringing her knees to her chest, and when she heard a knock on the bathroom’s plastic door, she hoped that, maybe, if she curled into a small enough ball she’d fall right into the toilet and could swim to the ocean that way. 














































                                                 Sacré-Coeur


My father was always a soft man, both in the physical sense and in his disposition. On winter nights in Minnesota, he would sit on the floor by our fireplace. I’m getting too old for this, he’d grumble to himself, but then he’d fold himself into the floor and watch the flames, wait for me. I used to curl into his lap, rest my head on his large belly, and he would wrap me into his big arms, press a kiss onto my head, whisper, “Lucinda, I love you.” I’d nuzzle my head into his chest and breathe in, long and slow, then climb to stand in the hole of his crossed legs, smile a full grin (minus a few teeth), and say, “I love you, Dad,” with the ease of gravity. My love, and my telling him so, was a law of the universe.
        When I was eight, we traveled out of the country for the first time. Mom and Dad had never gotten to go on a honeymoon because they loved me so much, they couldn’t do anything else until I came into their lives, they were so excited. Mom later admitted that yes, she was pregnant before they got married, and no, they didn’t have the means to go away, especially now that a money-sucker was going to eat too many pieces of their financial pie, but she truly didn’t mind. Deep down, she was lying. She did mind a bit; I knew from the way she’d talk about her sister Abby’s trip to Belize or her co-worker Dolores in Italy, how each isn’t that sweet? or doesn’t that sound just beautiful? was laced with a drop of resentment that she had never left the continental U.S. herself.  
        The plane tickets, three white rectangles with orange circles slapped in their centers, three white bills marked TO: PARIS, FRANCE, three white promises of I love you and I don’t regret a thing were a surprise from Dad, and she cried when she saw them, thick tears filled with dark mascara. She held his hands and kissed him, and she said, “I am thankful for you every day. Forever and always.”
        On the trip, for the most part, we did everything she wanted to do. It was all for her. She would suggest something and say, But are you sure? and he would sputter out a cough and a nod, smiling the entire time. He only had one request: visit Montmartre. On our last day, we did.
        The metro was, for an eight-year-old, long and boring, even when Dad tried to make me learn numbers in French, the only thing he himself knew other than the “Je voudrais” and “L’addition, s’il vous plait” he learned for the trip. I, of course, protested and rested my head against the window, brows pinched in exhaustion and general grumpiness from the lack of sleep accumulating over the last six days. Dad only rubbed my shoulder with his finger, thumbing circles on the back of my left shoulder blade.
        The neighborhood was filled with sloping hills, pink houses, cascading ivy down the sides of old shops. Upon arrival, Dad broke out his textbook knowledge in a boulangerie (“Je voudrais un pain au chocolat for my daughter”), and I pulled apart the brown-speckled pastry with two sticky fingers, distracted by the flakey food from the 270 steps up to the Sacré-Coeur.
        “Lucy, Lucy, stand right here.” Mom pulled her phone from her bag, holding it up before I even had time to wipe the chocolate off of my cheek, however that got there.
        “Mom, please, stop,” I whined.
        “Lucinda, come here, please. Just appease your mother.” Dad extended his scooped arms, beckoning to me, welcoming me in like a warm pool on a cool Spring day. He lowered himself into the open space, just sat in the middle of the sea of stone stairs, one small figure among the standing people scattered around him.
        “I don’t want another picture.” I crossed my arms and shook my head, my version of a tantrum. “I don’t want one.”
        “Lucinda, please don’t be like this,” he said, gently. So gently.
        “It’s fine, George.” As an accessory to an exasperated sigh, Mom adjusted her dark curls with the fingers of her free, phoneless hand. “I’m going into the Basilica, then. She can stay out here until her attitude changes.”
        “I’ll stay with her here. You enjoy, my love.” 
As she walked away, she lifted the phone, pointing it at the arching domes and crackling stone walls, the color of tea-stained paper.
        “Come here,” Dad said, beckoning to me again. Free from the threat of a camera click, I went, curling into his lap like I always used to, laying my head in the crook of his neck, arms linked behind his head. “Why are you making things hard for Mom?”
        “Why does she need another picture? I don’t want another.”
        “You may someday.”
        “I think pictures are stupid.”
        “I do too.”
        “You do?” I pulled back, looking up at him.
        “Sure. Why not remember the moment as it is?”
        I had never thought of that before but considering my reasoning at that age (I just don’t like them!) was much weaker than his, I just said, “Uh, huh. Yeah.”
        He smiled down at me. “Do you know what this place is called?”
        I exhaled loudly and rested my head against his chest again, closing my eyes. “I forget. What’s it called?”
        “It’s called the Sacré-Coeur. Sacred Heart.”
        “What does that mean?”
        “It means that Jesus loved people so much, and he went around showing everyone his heart, even people that didn’t deserve it, so that his heart became special.”
        “Really?”
        “Probably.” He laughed lightly, a vibration against my limp body, like this was some big joke to him, and I scowled.
        “I want a special heart.”
        “Well,” he kissed my nose, “you won’t get one by being mean to your mother.”
        I frowned. “Okay, I’ll get a picture.”
        “Good. Be good to your mother.”
        “Dad, do you have a sacred heart?”
        “No. No, I have a broken heart.”
        “A broken heart? What do you mean?”
        He shook his head softly. “Oh, it’s nothing. Oh look, here comes Mom. Honey!” he called, and trotting down the steps, she turned, grinning when she saw him.
        “Has someone turned their attitude around?” She put her hands on her hips, tapping the foot of an extended leg.
        I looked at Dad. He winked, and if I hadn’t been staring at him the whole time, I might’ve missed it. I scrunched my nose, conceding, “I’ll get a picture, Mom.”
        Dad and I shuffled together, two tectonic plates bumping and shifting, until I sat on the edge of his knees, his hands on my sides as if to hold me up. My mother held up her phone, camera ready to shoot, and snapped away.
Looking at the pictures now, my smile was too round and not upturned on the corners, false joy oozing through the image. Tears brim at remembering the moment still, a moment when he told me, but I didn’t understand. 
Dad died two months after that trip of heart cancer. It’s a rare form, only one in 100,000 ever get diagnosed, and Dad was one of the (un)lucky recipients. He passed in a hospital under the bright fluorescent lights that matched the white of his teeth as Mom’s hands clasped around his, as thick tears filled with mascara rolled down her cheeks, and she said, “I am thankful for you every day. Forever and always.”
Sometimes, when I tell the story, I edit the words. I tell friends, loved ones, that he said he had a special heart himself because his heart was pumping, and what’s more special than human life? 
And really, truly, I still wonder to myself, sitting on the steps of the Basilica fifteen years later, abroad for the semester in Paris, what is?