Buddha Statue 
[PC] [GL] [LB]


 Once there was a person who said to me in a mocking yet not unserious tone: "There is only one God."  I was in disapproval.


 The Buddha statue was rolled in a towel and slept in a cardboard box. When it was taken out again, the paint on the eight corners of the base was reduced.


 I placed it carefully in the storage cabinet next to the bathroom, alongside the cheapest items: bicycle cushions, nylon cable ties, and some disposable bolts. Detergent and soft towels folded into squares, on the other hand, lie quietly under them.


 In doing so, I carefully separated it from the Gideon's Bible. 


To avoid interference with each other, the Bible was placed high up on the bookshelf.


Today, I took out the Buddha again.


 I gently put it on the freshly polished dining table. It was bathed in the dim light.






Zixuan ‘Abraham’ Wu








































do not count the cost
[PC] [GL] [LB]


Like the taxicab
Coming to bring me home
i give it to You instead




-Mary Rose Corkery
































































birthing dopamine 
[GL] [PC] [LB]
 
he  doesn’t dance anymore
he  doesn’t walk anymore
he  doesn’t yearn anymore
 
tether me home again
 
don’t dance with me  ha
don’t sing with me  ha
don’t be with me  ha




        Brenda Ruiz




















































Where the Sheep Are (No Longer)
[PC] [GL] [LB]


The train takes me
to Watergate Lane. I travel
alone – sweater zipped,
suitcase zipped, two-teeth
pulled, locked, into each other –
compact. Sheep in the distance –
the young coddle the old
until they become the old
and have to give the love
they once received. Milk –
sent out to front porches,
set out on front porches to cool
for a child to suckle, hungry;
for a boy to gulp, growing;
for a mother to bake, worn.
A city now – unfolding
from the two-teethed tracks
stretching into the heart
where she sheep are
no longer.




        Ashley Trotter
























cravings
[PC] [GL] [LB]


the woman ate mangoes
spoon after spoon of
halves after halves of
smooth shiny wet solar orange
yellow-skinned


fruits cradled in one large hand
rough fingers curled around a sticky knife
dipping down to pierce taut peel and
split fibers in two.


under the window[a]
she feels the scrape of the spoon
against her palm
through the slick skin
shaving away the last layer
of cold sun-fed flesh
and desires more




        Julia Pangan
































My Tugboat, an Island Alone
[PC] [GL] [LB]


Above, the cotton clouds gathered
as the light lowered. Below,
(a mirror), the marsh
released its greens and blues
(dragonflies, herons),
to be replaced by the gathering grey above. I sat alone,
my tugboat an island alone,
waiting for the rain to fall. I remembered Mum,
(her face) red and white and water,
when Father didn’t return that night
from the casino. Silent weeks passed
(years). When I called her earlier
she asked how he was and I lied and told her
fine, a little grey (the weather) and hung up
to paddle out to feel (what I imagined
to be) his tears touch me.


        
                Ashley Trotter




































The Hills of Montmartre
[PC] [GL] [LB]


In my dreams they have more elevation,
the roads – swirling things, locked together by cobbles.
Tucked between the pastel hues of les appartements,
a vineyard from the years of Louis XIV
produces small purple grapes; when we pass on foot
we mistake them for raisins; laughter bubbles up
as they pop in your mouth.


At the top lies the heart: le Sacré Cœur – you can climb it
if you dare – swirling staircases leading to a pillared dome.
Grape remnants taint my breath as I ascend.
We emerge together – all of the city opens
beneath us. Drink it in you say and I pull in a breath of air
imagining the view to be wine; my lungs
hold it tight. I’m fearful
if I exhale all the bâtiments will crumble away.


                Ashley Trotter






































Don’t Bother
[PC] [LB] [DU]


Flipping pages in the dead of night,
I rub my drooping eyelids. 
The crickets chirp outside,
And I know that they’re laughing.
A bucketful of chuckles and scorns
That perhaps we may deserve,
And a sudden revelation
That I’ll never fall asleep alone. 
 
The lamp still shines on,
Making a sharp fizzing sound,
A crack every now and then
A pop.
Let the light crack as I crack.
Not a soft glow,
But cold fluorescence
Fit for the institution this house has become. 
 
The bed seems to be getting narrower
Each day.
The Mattress Eater―I call it.
Comes in the daytime and bites off
Chunks when I’m not there. 
There’s no space for you beside me anymore.
Don’t bother coming in and trying to sit―
You’ll fall right off the edge.
 
Absence intrigues me because
You weren’t really there to begin with.
The smog that infiltrates the mind
And thickens with each passing hour,
An inattention to light and breath and sound.
What did I just say?
I bet you didn’t hear. 
 
You have a gift for saying what you do not mean,
A talent
For painting blizzards on white canvas,
An aptitude for hide and seek. 
 
So go forth
And hide behind those bushes,
Clamber up that tree.
But when you get to the top
Don’t bother looking down at me. 
 
The blinds are drawn. 
The window is shut.
And the crickets are laughing.




                Louise Faitar


















































How the Giant Falls
[PC] [LB][PB]


Pointed tusks of ivory
And splintered shards of
Whittled bone,
Butchered skin
And blood-soaked hides
That rot in the dense jungle.
The Giant has fallen
Along with the
Muffled
Strangled
Trumpeting of Kings cut down,
Cornered criminally across the
Coveted continent.
Can you hear the cries,
The heaving and final sigh
Just before the body lies still?
Can you see the pools of stifling crimson
Dotting the savannah,
Sinking into cracks of parched soil?
Does your gun grant you governance over
This sacred ground?
Have you gone
Deaf
To the screams and
Blind
To the struggle of the abused?
Look into that bloodshot eye and tell it
That it deserved to die.
Wipe the tears wetting the leathery―


Hide.




                Louise Faitar






i kept my grandmother’s sewing kit 
[PC] [LB][PB]
 
because i was fascinated by repair— 
with the way that the women in my family
choose to handle 
the brokenness of men.
My Pop-Pop, as i knew him,
was a saint— 
but first he was an alcoholic 
who ripped his slacks stumbling out of Don’s
on a Sunday afternoon.
Traipsing down Chester Pike 
like Dionysus in Thebes,
dressed in stranger’s clothes,
trying to convince the town 
he was worthy of praise. 
But they did not believe— 
all failing to see the demons 
he bore like Bacchae,
save for my grandmother
who saw his demons and tears 
                   and said, Harry— 
taking her sewing kit
                   and the god’s name in vain 
and patching up his polyester,
her irises honeying his reflection 
until he could recognize himself again. 


                Lexie Slotterback




















I Wish I Could Take You 
[PC] [LB][PB]


to the brick that bore me, 
pushed me past clay and shale and drywall
into a bathroom whose steel faucet never ceases— 
It drips
         and drops
but rarely carries warmth.
That flows from my mother,
from her dreams of a home with a high ceiling
and a Christmas light display 
to rival that of E. 20th Street— 
far from Bethlehem,
but leaning towards its ear with whispered prayer,
         for a home where faucets never leak, 
         where the booms that echo on darkened streets
         are always just fireworks.
 
I could take you for a drive 
around the landmines that line our highways, 
through thoughts polluted
by the cloud factory smoke
that seeps into our lungs during the afternoon cortisol rush.
Potholes littered across road fragments 
drive even the agnostics to pray, 
         let this labyrinth of construction lead home
         and the mechanic be right about wide sidewalls preventing tears.
 
Mostly,
I wish we could go
just past the trafficked frenzy of the I-95 
to the park where children gawk at planes 
set to land on runways where every passenger is departing
         or wishing they were.
Yet the children see divine— 
like all planes lead to Bethlehem,
to the promise of seeing loved ones lost
to faucets that leaked and flooded them 
into the Susquehanna, 
         without prayer, 
         but still home. 


                
                Lexie Slotterback








































































wreath of violets
[PC] [LB][PB]


I.
when we didn’t understand what it meant to say I love you, you’d braid
violets into my curls. there was a patch of them in the woods behind[b]
the lake where we’d bike on summer nights helmets off hair spiraling
behind us. band-aid bruised knees and dirt under nails, you splayed me
in your lap, wild locks billowed out, and you built me a wreath of violets.
 
I always followed you down to the creek to splash around
barefoot bare skinned with nothing but the sound of the marsh,
my harmony to the melody of your laughter. you clung to
the covenants that fell from my lips as I fell into a drunken stupor
of love. love like the camellias blooming in my grandmother’s garden.
 
II.
when you first told me I love you my heart flipped in my fissured rib cage,
I said it back. you’d go on to love pale lattes and boys in volleyball uniforms.
you’d love cruises across the ocean and catching flights late into the night.
you’d love French baguettes, German trains, and other people. I’d think I
loved someone else until you whispered you still had my letters, etchings
of my love you–love you–love yous burnt into your childhood desk draw.[c]
 
I left your words suspended, but I sent you snapshots
of lavender bushes on my walk home. I returned clipped
photos of green carnations pinned to sweeping dresses
and finely tailored suits paired with your highest heels.
 
III.
I always find you in the language of flowers.
our last few years were spent passing portraits of calla
lilies and pansies. I’d’ve given my soul to hear your
voice, but your body sleeps in the land down under.
 
when your face appeared in front of a flag, ‎fuchsia violet bluebell,
I knew we’d fucked us up. I typed out two hundred ways I loved
you, but hesitation had me deleting the way I’d described your lips.
adults can mind their own damn heartbreak without bringing up
echoes buried in hollowed out trees where our names are etched.
I could try and give us a chance to finally let this go. to let you go.
 
IV.
the text you sent me as doomsday overtook Europe
let me know that I still love you. it let me know
that you might still love me. but you’re stuck down
in Sydney, floating out to sea and I’m standing
in the rain to watch rayo flicker across Quito
as mother nature weeps for what she has lost.
it’s not the right time for us. our time is dead.
 
when I said I wanted to marry you,
they told me that little girls didn’t grow up
to marry other little girls. now, I think
that little girls grow up to marry other little girls,
but maybe I don’t grow up to marry you.




                        Isabella De Palo Garcia Perez






















































the endling
[PC][PB]


to the last Poʻouli: no kau a kau
 
Poʻouli once roamed the north-eastern
slopes of Haleakalā and nested aloft
in the ʻōhiʻa lehua, a flowering evergreen
tree native to Hawaiʻi and her islands,
feasting on olapa berries and waxworms.
 
sounds of rain pittering along silversword
vegetation as the Pueo, the guide of ancestor
spirits, and hallowed, paramount honeycreepers
flitting above evergreens and invaders around the
crater, all ache for the loss of one of their own.
 
eleven weeks before the endling died, one half-blind
and lonely songbird found itself in a battle against
Papahānaumoku and Wākea, his earth mother and sky
father. humans, always trying to race eradication. that
night the heartwood wept for its beloved, far from home.
 
even those devoted hands, warm to the touch running
down soft, gentle feathers, couldn’t nurse him out
of extinction. time is a coup d’état: cruel and swift
colonization of the body as is the illness permeating
his bones, weak and anemic, atrophies beyond repair.
 
they don’t bury the body in volcanic soil, no return
to his ancestral homeland. rather, he remains pressed
in between sheets of plastic in the ice cold. shipped
to some distant mainland to be poked, prodded
until there is nothing left but the chill of death.
 
they never named him but his song resonates
like a melodious Kalani, cold winds reaching
upwards to the heavens residing above rainforests.
‘I’iwi and ‘Ākohekohe engage in a dance of grief
as the Pueo guides the little Poʻouli home forever.




                
                Isabella De Palo Garcia Perez






howling at the moon
[PC][PB]
 
in México, the coyotes howled all night long. even when the moon faded behind the dawn of a new day their cries called to me like a warning. I would lie awake to sit with the stars as the dogs curled close to my feet, clinging to the warmth of my fear as it burned against the chill of the desert stone tiles. Canela, cinnamon spice on her cacao coat, snarled at the door at 3am when a coyote wandered close enough to touch. bright white bone bared to the thin glass pane clinging to the window frame. the coyotes growled, la gringa mexicana…la chingada and I growled back, me lleva la chingada, I guess, Spanish cracking on my tongue like flakes of mazapán do. I should’ve known the coyotes would come for me when my dad’s attempts at a border crossing failed. the coyotes never led me home, just took me outside to howl at the moon over the riverside as dead women howled back. they led me to the bats, men dressed up in their daddy’s green coats, white hoods, and slacks like this is just another day on the job. the bats on the border tell me, speak English only. when we got off the plane in Atlanta, la Migra looked at me like I didn’t belong, like my blood wasn’t born on one coast and raised on another. head held high like my white mother taught me, I leaned forward towards the white man and his big gun to whisper, no estes chingando and turned like the coyotes aren’t on my heels. they aren’t, not really. just the wings of bats fluttering next to my ear.




                Isabella De Palo Garcia Perez






































the mines
after Paul Muldoon
[PC][PB]
 
we find the earth our forebears once called
home in Southeastern Michoacán, edging
the outskirts of la Ciudad de México.
when my brother kicks up crumbling
dirt and stardust shed by our bloodline,
light scatters across the sky and it seems
we’ve scratched a four-hundred-year-old-itch.
 
in the golden age of colonization, Zacatecas
was once one of the most successful mines
in all of the Spanish empire, producing silver
for hungry swine hell bent on bleeding us dry.
my blood bleeds different indigenous inchor
than what is found where my family ranch
is settled. such is the legacy of colonialism,
to be displaced from your homeland again
and again. we visit the Mina del Eden, or as
my ancestors could’ve called it, the mine
of dead marigolds. in México, I am still
mestiza, still mixed. I speak English to my
mother and whisper Spanish prayers at our
village church. I am the product of the empire.
 
in the mine, I stared longingly at slabs of ore,
gold dust, and gemstones gleaming six thousand
colors. what would it be like to touch, taste history
again? in the mine, my brothers ran ahead, still
small and young enough to forget. when I looked
down over the railing into the cavern of rock walls,
I swore I smelt blood. I knew the warm trickle
of iron tang on my tongue long before I knew
what it meant for things in this world to die.


                
                        Isabella De Palo Garcia Perez 










borderlandia
[PC] [PB]
 
the saguaros look like the old gods,
tilted, vibrant, foreboding. grasping
to the sun-streaked sky as if it holds
all of the answers of ancestry. cottontails
scuttle and bounce, hopping over agave,
away from snarling, snorting javelina. gods
still dwell in the etchings of the desert’s
paintbrushes and spiny, sanguine ocotillo.
 
there are gods you’ll see on blazing
summer sundays, when the sun is ripe
and honeyed, and the air smells rich,
like young wine that goes to your head.
there are gods you’ll see when the icy
night has covered the stretched horizon
in a midnight shroud, soft skin of stomach
and a flushed neck sprawl naked against
the judgement of the desert-soaked stars.
 
there are gods you’ll feel when the pain
tears prickly pear bits into your skin.
there are gods you’ll hear rattling like
snakes along sandstone formations,
calling out a warning before danger.
there are gods you’ll see many times
on your path, and there are gods you’ll
see only once, gods you’ll embrace with
open arms and those you’d rather forget.
 
there are gods that’ll slither into dreams,
oleander-laced, gnawing life from your
bones sucking water from your supple skin,
pulling hair from your head. you’ll wake up
gasping, snuffed out by dehydration and cave
fires. these are the gods you’ll taste like ash
under your tongue. these are the gods you’ll
see in the smoke, phantom apparitions. these
are the gods that you can’t escape and can’t
escape you. gods you’ll see in the mirror.
 
don’t look at them too long.
                                                Isabella De Palo Garcia Perez






i found god
[PC][PB]


retching red spirals[d]
in a honky tonk bar
silk and soot pouring out 
into the porcelain below, Her
emesis coating the hyacinth tumbles
that crown Her countenance 
                   hold my hair back, She asks
so i wrap my fist around Her inflorescence
in awe of the way She spits
                   why did he call? She asks
but i have no answer, distracted 
by the crowd call for the “Tush Push” 
                   until the stench of Her grenadine gag 
                   putrefies the back of my throat
and i am brought back to a woman
crying over man 
i tell Her about how when i was little
i would lie awake, terrified by sounds 
of creaking and cracking 
from stairs and attic beams
so my parents told me, 
a house makes noise as it settles
and maybe that’s why he’s calling 
but She can’t hear me 
over the sound of the crowd
line dancing just outside the door 
                   the god flushes
whispers, thanks
and rejoins the congregation.




        Lexie Slotterback






lone star
[PC][PB]


dryness hangs itself on the aging wood of
dusty ghost town bars. I left you feverish, 
confused and writhing in the dark, 
two rusting nails glistening above the heartless texan bedpost. 


what is it 
if not sex
that brings this arid wasteland fertility?




        Grace McPhee






















































dublin
[PC][PB]


i rolled myself out as if I was a Persian carpet
hoping to be tread on by filthy shoes


i am jealous of the grip you have on Kant
because i know you would never lay a hand on me,
not even if i wanted it; not even if i asked you to. 


if i hung off the edge of a cliff, gauzy and soaked wet with rain
i would ask you to waltz on my knuckles;
i would beg you please, to give me my pain
and make it so that i never recover from 
having seen you in dublin proper, 
your neck craned; a bird between my teeth




                Grace McPhee
________________


THISBE
[PC]


I know you love the security
of brick walls, but to survive
under siege one has to give up
on the world.


Even if our hearts belong
to one another, there is only
so much that can be whispered
through cracks.


Passions inevitably cool
when tender lips are met
with stone, flesh fortified
by the comfort of control.


You and I cannot
build a life from words.


There has to be more
than nods and glances,
our future fading
with each pressing moment.


Come let me hold you
— once and for all.
________________


Untitled[e]


  

________________


A Pleasure You Suffer, An Ailment You Enjoy
[PC]


There[f] it was. A triple-layer, fudgy, darker-than-Hell but sweeter than Heaven, sprinkle-coated, whipped-cream topped slice of chocolate cheesecake. It was an explosion in my mouth. Overwhelmingly rich, a tad bit chewy, ultra-moist. The smears of chocolate ganache were tire tracks on the edges of my lips, and my mom beamed at me from across the table, in awe of the fact that she had created a creature so joyful and so incredibly messy.


[g]
The Cheesecake Factory was my mom and my favorite place to go after the mall crawl through the purse section of Macy’s and the garish kaleidoscope of Justice, every pre-teen girl’s favorite store. While flipping through the comically large menu, I would sneak glances at the teenage girls eating with their friends, weaponized with flip phones and laughs that completely mesmerized me. I’d ask, “Can I come here by myself with my friends when I’m older?” She’d grin between bites of her flatbread, and in a language we both understood but never needed to verbalize, I knew she was saying yes. I’d giggle and steal glances at the table of teens, my mind filled with the made-up conversations I would one day have with my older, wiser, cooler, didn’t-need-their-mom-to-drive-them-places, friends. My boyfriend would be handsome and tall. The gossip would be juicy and hot. I’d wear crop tops and swim in bikinis and my mom would let me stay out until the street lamps turned on. As I would sink deeper into the fantasy, my mother’s voice, a life preserver in my sea of chocolate cheesecake daydreams, would pull me back to the shore of reality. She’d cock her head at me, not knowing where my mind had run off to, but I think she had her suspicions. With a honey touch, she’d reach across and sigh as she wiped the smears from my face, giving me a look I couldn’t quite read. Was she happy? Sad? Something in between? Her protective gaze washed over me, like she was scared I could disappear right before her very eyes, but they still sparkled like she had never had the pleasure of looking at something so lovely.


I later learned the word for such looks. Saudade. /souˈdädə/. A word that has no direct English translation. A word that comes from the same soil as my mother, a Portuguese term, one that holds many definitions. When Google’d, “a feeling of longing, melancholy, or nostalgia” will light up your screen. Elucidated in an NPR article, it is “a melancholy nostalgia for something that perhaps has not even happened.” Perhaps more poignantly, as the Portuguese writer Manuel De Melo phrases, “a pleasure you suffer, an ailment you enjoy.”


Suddenly, there’s a word to describe how I felt one night in December. When my friends and I took a chance on a hidden café in the city. My eyes floated around, landing on each of their faces as we sat at the dingy circle table in the corner, and all I saw were smiles. Full, teethy, cheek hurting, dimple popping smiles. The waitress came over and stared at us for a minute, like we were portraits in a gallery, and she was mystified by the fact she could look upon such art for free. Maybe we were portraits that night, art meant to be relished in and admired. A messy Monet of girls, giggling, sharing secrets, simply basking in the glow of being young and beautiful, and most importantly, fully alive. But underneath, in a gallery not for public viewing, I couldn’t help but think about how this moment was fleeting. It came, and it would go. No matter how many times I came to the hole in the wall café, I could never replicate the feeling of pure bliss I had in that very moment. I would grow older, I would move on, I would find new cafes with new people. It was an ailment, the thought of never being able to return to this sparkle of youth with the people I loved, in a place that seemed to love me. But God, I enjoyed it.


Saudade was the word for the feeling I had in the back seat of my Lyft, on the way home from a date that ended in a warm kiss on a cold street corner. My face still flushed from another’s touch, my chariot driven up to the curb. It was past midnight but I hadn’t lost a glass slipper, and the beat up white Subaru had not yet turned into a pumpkin. Proof my fairytale of a night had not yet ended. The driver was older. He was quiet, I was quiet, both decompressing from a late Sunday night spent in Boston. The throwback radio station was on. Soft, ambient, but enough to fill the space our silence left in the car as we sped down the tunnels and out into the suburbs of the city. As a song I don’t remember ended, Alicia Keys’ “If I Ain’t Got You” came on over the airwaves. The driver reached out his right hand, wrinkled from age and experience, and turned the volume knob up. The music floated throughout the small space of the Subaru, and giving into the urge I got whenever I heard a song I knew, I sang. Softly, my voice wafted from the black leather back seat, as I sang myself a lullaby to end the night. The chorus hit and suddenly, my voice was not the only one filing the car. My driver belted out each word, felt each word, as if he was no longer a Lyft driver on a Sunday night, but Alicia Keys herself. It was a duet, a spontaneous harmony with a stranger. A moment I’ve only assumed happens in movies, a moment that made me want to freeze time and let myself sit in the back of this Lyft forever on the way to nowhere. The song ended, and we both smiled. I couldn’t see it behind the mask, but I knew we did. “What a song,” I said softly. He released a sigh, one that sounded like he had been holding it in for a million years, “That came on at the perfect moment don’t you think?” And I did. I don’t know if I’ll ever get the feeling I had in that car back. A perfect moment with a perfect stranger. But every time I think of it, my heart sings saudade, just like my driver did on that chilly midnight carriage ride home.


It’s a word to describe the feeling I had on my grandma’s 87th birthday—when the family was gathered and the cake was cut, the laughs were loud and the smiles were wide. My cousins, all off living grown and adult lives, doing grown and adult things, were back home, in the comfort of the house they grew up in, with the people they grew up with. My aunts and uncles, looking slightly grayer than the last time I had seen them, but their faces were still glowing golden and their embrace was just as warm. My Grandma, shimmering with the glimmer in her eye that comes from being another year older and wiser, telling stories about the last time the whole family was together, highlighting the rarity it was, that we would all be in the same room at the same time. And then, among the delight and joy of another trip around the sun, I couldn’t help but wonder how many more she’d have. How many more forehead kisses would my grandma be able to plant on my growing head? How many more summers would be spent at her house? All the windows open to let the salty air waft in from the ocean just yards away, three fans on in the living room, pointed directly at my grandma and I as we watched Golden Girls reruns and finished seasons of Downton Abbey and whatever else was on PBS. How many more ice coffees would be made in her kitchen to help us cool off? Always Dunkins, always decaf, always a splash of almond milk. When does always become never? At what point would my family be together again, underneath the same roof instead of just the same sky, and would it be under the same gleeful circumstances, or something much grimmer? Again, saudade.


A word for the moments before my father gets on a plane, again and again, and flies halfway across the world. His United States Army uniform dangling on a coat hanger placed on the doorframe of my parent’s bedroom, a constant reminder for days that, while he cooked me breakfast on the weekends and came to every softball game I had, he’d soon be gone. 
[h]
For that now, a now full of saudade, he was in the bleachers. His hands clasped in concentration, watching my every move at the plate. As though he could feel the shift of my weight from my front to back foot, as the pitcher began her wind up. Like he could feel every clench of my fingers as they gripped the bat he had taped for me the weekend before. We were one body, one soul, and when my bat would connect with the neon yellow ball and it would go soaring off, fast enough to leave contrails in its wake, it was like my dad saw his heart out there on the field, running around the bases. As I rounded each dirt covered bag on the field, I could hear his shouts, spurring me on, lighting a fire in my feet, pushing me forward and faster. I’d glance over to the bleachers to see him standing up, invading all boundaries of personal space with the other parents he shared the bench with, clapping and screaming. The excitement of seeing his pride and joy running around a diamond doing the thing she loved, coursing through his body. I’d hug him tightly after the game, my arms wrapped around his waist and my head buried in the spot in his chest that felt custom made for me.  Bliss. Yet, in that very same moment, I was reminded that he wouldn’t be at the next game, the next sticky Saturday in the middle of July. He wouldn’t be sitting in his designated spot in the rusty bleachers of the ballpark. I was reminded that the country I had to share him with would rip him from my arms, off to fight in a war I didn’t quite understand against enemies I couldn’t see. He’d be left with a hole in his chest, forced to leave his heart stateside, running around the bases of the softball diamond without its biggest fan and greatest protector. Saudade.


Saudade is love. Saudade is loss. Saudade is the beautiful mess you get when love and loss combine. Even as I write, I feel these memories slipping. Slowly, with the same fragility of a dream when you first wake up. I’m scared one day I won’t fully remember their beauty. I won’t see the sparkle when I close my eyes, and the voices that ring in my head when I play them back will get softer, until they’re no longer audible. I find saudade in that. Saudade. A combination that reminds us that we are human. That we are here. That we feel.
________________


A Golden Key
[PC]


As[i][j] she lies on the warm sidewalk, squinting into skies covered with smog and criss-crossed with power lines, her mind wanders to her third grandpa.
The thought couldn’t be more out of place. Here, “Fantastic Baby” blares in the background while she breathes in car exhaust fumes from Porsches driven by people who don’t know the meaning of money. There, his tattered shorts flapped around his legs, gently outlining his gangly frame as he breathed in the heavy, dense smoke from the wood stove in rural Sichuan, surrounded by the click-click sounds of motor scooters bouncing their way down poorly paved roads. Nevertheless, she thinks of him.
She thinks about his hunched-over shoulders, his tank top sticking to his sweat-stained back in the claustrophobic room where you didn’t even have space to spread out your arms, the room without air conditioning even in the 21st century, where he and his wife lived for the better part of their lives. She thinks of the small color TV that crackled with the morning, midday, and evening news, blasting the manufactured smiles and robotic voices of anchors so artificial that they could have come out of a factory, endlessly delivering what she scoffed at as bullshit communist propaganda. She thinks about how he sat on his short stool, swatting at flies and mosquitoes that had somehow made their way through the netting with the handle of his paper fan, smoking cigarettes. The cheapest cigarettes that you can get. The ones that choked you out no matter how long you had been smoking. Only ten-yuan a pack. How old was he then? 40? 50? 60?
Third grandpa is a rather odd appellation. Even other Chinese kids furrow their brows at the weird expression, much less the white kids she hangs out with 9 months out of the year. They don’t really understand who he was, what he means. Even she herself isn’t sure of his place in her genealogy. A great-grandfather? A great-uncle? An uncle? No matter how many times her relatives tried to explain the wide and intricate family tree, she never figured it out. Third grandpa was older, for some inexplicable reason, than her second grandpa. But fifth grandpa is younger than fourth grandpa. Somewhere in the line, someone got married too soon and had babies too early, and someone else got married too late and had babies too late. So now she just sits here, confused about third grandpa and how his number fits into the rest. The odd one out. The disruptor.
Not far away, her friends clamor over some petty argument about a girl or a malicious rumor. All drunk, their fingertips stained with cigarette ashes and god knows what drugs, they bicker over the most inconsequential things as if they were the most important things in the world. One of them is heaving into the planted shrubs, doing his part to maintaining the greenery in the city. His limited-edition Givenchy T-shirt that he paid triple retail value for has vomit trickling down the tail end of the “Y”, smearing the logo in a mess of brown and green. Not much of a loss, she smirks.
The night started just like any other night of rebellious debauchery, a group of not-quite-children-anymore-but-not-adults trying their hand at imagined maturity. On vacation from their schools on the other side of the world, they eagerly jumped into the lax rules and abundant entertainment of a homeland they barely knew. They began at the bars, slyly masquerading as older, more confident, more sophisticated versions of themselves. In reality, the owners couldn’t care less how old they were. In this place without a rule of law, even if they were just infants, as long as they kept a steady stream of red paper Maos coming, copious amounts of alcohol would be delivered into their waiting mouths. They just preferred to think that their cunning played a part in the scheme. 
As the alcohol drained down throats, places changed and faces blurred. Her memory blurred. Voices. Music. Lights. The karaoke bar. Then the nightclubs. And now she lies here, outside the nightclubs, next to scantily dressed partygoers squeezing in-and-out among tough-faced bouncers, thinking about third grandpa. 
Her mother always visited him when she went back to the dingy fields and dirt roads of her childhood. Back to chickens crossing the street and people on bicycles waking up the entire neighborhood by blasting the world’s most tacky music through cheap speakers as they sped down the street. Where half the older people are still illiterate and the other half barely literate. Where hope withered to die.
She was always dragged along, not quite understanding the despondency, the air of resignation. She would gingerly step around the dirt, desperately looking for the slightest bit of concrete, and hide in air-conditioned cars, complaining when mosquitoes invaded the cheap netting in the rickety houses that she was warmly welcomed into. She would silently will herself away from this place, burying her face in her phone to try to make the time go by faster, ducking from relatives who were either scared or jealous of her, prying with questions and curiosity in a dialect she could barely understand, trying to share with her a heritage she didn’t know. 
Third grandpa was the exception.
Third grandpa liked to read. He was interested in current affairs instead of trashy mind-numbing soap operas. He wouldn’t sit around and gossip about the neighbor’s daughter who got knocked up or whose son made some money out in the city or who owed thousands and thousands of yuan in gambling debt. No, third grandpa always had a quiet air about him, a dignified nobility. He didn’t make her feel as uncomfortable as the other relatives did. He did not have the stink of the impoverished about him. She could tell that somewhere, beyond his bare apartment, beyond the clamor of the mahjong parlor next door and the drunkards wandering the streets, third grandpa once had a dream.
Her family isn’t one to share old stories. Her mother escaped from this place that  perpetually smells of animal shit, with its tiny stores trying to pass off god-knows-what as beef and wrinkled men and women with leather-like skin haggling over mere cents. She escaped a sepia-toned, dust-filled land to high-rises and Chanel scarves. She escaped to organic grocery stores and cappuccinos with friends and a blue-covered passport rather than red. She escaped to talking about whose kid got into Harvard rather than which duck fell into the latrine trenches. She never wanted to come back.
But her mother always comes back. She has to fulfill her filial piety, her gratitude to her elders. She has to come back and pretend like she likes this place and that she doesn’t feel guilty for leaving. She is forced to face her beginnings, the baseness of her relatives who accosts her for money to buy booze in the middle of the street. Her mother hates them, so stories are rare.
But third grandpa was the exception.
Her mother would tell her bits and pieces. Third grandpa was smart. Third grandpa was once a scholar. Third grandpa had a bright future. Third grandpa even knew how to read, and read well. Third grandpa got into university. Third grandpa had a dream. Then, the Cultural Revolution came.
The Cultural Revolution killed third grandpa, her mother said. Took a young man in his prime and stifled his light, put out the flame, cut the engine. It tried to convince him that knowledge was evil, rightist and revisionist, poison to his mind. It told him that The Little Red Book was the only book he needed, the only book he should want. The Cultural Revolution tried to convince third grandpa that he did not need a dream, that Mao was the only dream. He resisted.
But third grandpa wasn’t the exception.
How could one man resist a revolution? Like many, he had to bow before the demands of his country. It demanded him to stop thinking, to stop learning, to stop questioning. It demanded that he leave university and never come back, to return to the farm and stay there, to become a beast. There, third grandpa’s road ended.
The revolution came and went. It was too late for third grandpa, but he had hope. A girl in the family, not his child but like him, inquisitive, ready to read, eager to learn. A girl propitiously coming of age when teachers were allowed back to their posts, when universities began entrance examinations again, when student voices again filled classrooms and halls. She was different. The first child in the family to show an interest in third grandpa’s dream. She became third grandpa’s hope.
When her parents didn’t have the money to pay the 100 yuan tuition for school, almost two month’s salary, third grandpa stuffed money into her pocket from his own and told her to eat better and study well. He would cover for her when she was summoned to dig out the potatoes or tend to the pigs with her younger brother, who ended up never even graduating from elementary school. He would lovingly hand her a treasured book from his small private library and urged her to read, to fill her mind. He introduced her to a world of possibility. Third grandpa would tell her his dream, and encourage her to find her own, to leave this place when he never could. 
And the little girl did. University. Then, in a time of opportunity, the little girl, who wasn’t a little girl anymore, who had so much courage, gave notice at her iron rice bowl job without telling any of her family and packed herself into a train headed for somewhere new, somewhere she had only heard of, a small fishing village that was tapped to become the next new metropolis on the coast. “The world is big, and I want to go see it,” her resignation letter read.
A fledgling country, a fledgling city, a fledgling adult harboring ancient dreams. The tide of history pushed her along, pushed the city along. A wounded country working twice as hard to make up for past mistakes. The small fishing village blossomed. So did she. 
She started as a secretary in a factory. To seem sophisticated, the foreman asked if she knew how to type. She lied and said yes. To seem international, the foreman asked her if she knew how to read English. She lied and said yes. Everything worked out perfectly–the foreman didn’t need a typist or a translator.
The foreman turned out to be a brilliant yet silly man. One day, she pitied him and gave him an apple when he forgot his lunch. Because he was silly, the foreman assumed she was in love with him, and as a courtesy he decided to fall in love with her. She was, in fact, not in love with him, but since he decided to fall in love with her, she did him the courtesy of falling in love with him. Soon, they shared a home and shared their dreams.
The beginning was hard. Small rented rooms smelling like musty clothes and cigarettes. Two-yuan bowls of noodles slurped hastily by the roadside while breathing in the dust and exhaust from cars driving by. Talks about the future, big visions, even their own company. The squalor of their past seemed temporary. In this city of opportunity, anything could happen. They will make it happen.
It started in that tiny rented room. A couple of young adults from all over the country, coming to the new city and united by a common dream. Knocking on doors, handing out flyers, renting a tiny office in a big building so they have an address to put on a business card. What could they sell? What could they have that people might want? The former foreman is luckily a brilliant man for all his silliness. He had something so rare that China hadn’t seen in two decades. Something that people wanted. A Ph.D. The first of the Ph.D.s to reemerge after their near extinction in the Cultural Revolution. Soon, they got their first customer. Soon after, she fulfilled her dream.
She lived in big houses by the ocean, pointing at each other across the Pacific thousands of miles away like beacons of her accomplishment. She had more books than she could possibly read. She tasted French wine and Spanish meats. She traveled on land, in the water, in the air. She talked about the economy and psychology and philosophy. She didn’t have to work because she had so much money, money that people from home could not even begin to dream of. Her hands were never again going to turn raw from toiling in the field, never again going to be covered in soot while cleaning the stove, never again going to get splattered by slop while feeding the pigs. Her hands were now reserved for expensive hand creams and delicate manicures, for leather handbags and flower arranging. Third grandpa’s little girl saw sights that third grandpa never could see. She took his dream and realized it. And then, third grandpa’s little girl had her own little girl.
That little girl is now lying on the sidewalk, trying her hand at debauchery. In her prime but already decaying. This little girl was born with a golden key in her mouth, one forged from the blood and sweat of her ancestors, but the little girl didn’t know that when she was born. She was born with hopes and dreams from generations back, hopes and dreams that were already fulfilled, with which she doesn’t know what to do. She enjoys their spoils but cannot find her own dream. Born with expectations of excellence, she soon realized that this golden key came with consequences. The little girl who is now drunk and sad and hopeless. The pressure was crushing.
A loud shout from her friends brings her attention back. Two of the guys are having a drunken fist fight over a girlfriend who kept her options open. The others have started bickering in a mixture of English and Mandarin, filled with expletives, over differing opinions on how to end this night of depravity. Givenchy shirt is still vomiting. She is no better than they are, these not-quite-children-anymore-but-not-adults, these Chens, Lis, Wangs, all of whose fathers’ names are on some financial magazine Best-Of list, whose mothers do nothing but drink too much red wine and play cards, all living in houses with marble floors and high ceilings, who cheat on examinations and bribe their way out of discipline, who throw money at the ground, in the water, and in the air and scoff at the idea of poverty.
Vanity has become a habit. She sits around casually mentioning luxurious vacations and expensive purchases. She flashes her blue-covered passport at jealous onlookers, not an immigrant from paucity but a golden ticket. She poses for cameras, plastering a smile on her face to show the world just how happy she is. She indulges herself on nights like these, hiding her misery under a vestige of vice. She is just like her friends, and she hates it.
In rural towns throughout the country, from the backs of crushed dreams rose new dreams and new generations who passed on those dreams. She was given a dream that she didn’t want, but she enjoys the spoils. They are all enjoying the spoils from old dreams. They have to pay for it, somehow.
They have never known hunger or thirst, never felt their backs aching from bending over rice paddies, never felt their dreams drowned in a sea of red, in a continuous chant of “Stand up! Those who are unwilling to become slaves!” But now, they throw up all over this city of dreams. Their sweat, their blood, their vomit littering the concrete. Their emptiness exposed by the endless bright city lights, haunted by dreams.
She doesn’t have any dreams. None of them have any. They are the products of dreams, but they were also crushed by the same dreams. Products of parents who saw their children as investments instead of people. Parents too preoccupied with fulfilling their elders’ dreams to foster their own children’s dreams. Where had these dreams gone off course? What started out humble has now transformed into a gargantuan monster. The children inherited dreams that have just inflated and inflated. What started as a simple wish has become an unimaginable burden. 
Given all the resources in the world to succeed, the children floundered. They drown in this sea of being too loved. The legacy they were born to carry but never wanted paid for in cold, hard cash. Parents who try so hard to give their kids anything they could ever want, to provide a life that they never had. But money isn’t enough. Material attention did not come with affection. Parents who are too busy striving for more and more to properly love their children. Everything the children have comes with the condition of success. Knowing the weight of dreams, they are so afraid of failing they won’t even hazard to find their own.
These not-quite-children-anymore-but-not-adults have all grown up too soon. They act just like the parents they proclaim to hate. Hypocrites raising younger hypocrites. All ingrates, but also all unfairly burdened with a responsibility they never asked to carry.
The only solace they can find is to tell themselves that they don’t care. Their teenaged-rebellion is so feeble against the magnitude of these dreams. All they can do is to drink themselves to death.
If they don’t care, they don’t need to feel guilt when facing their ancestors. They don’t need to panic at every mistake, don’t need to worry about carrying a legacy. They don’t need to worry about pleasing their parents’ endless goals, don’t need to look at everything they have, everything they own, with a feeling of fraud. They won’t need to wonder if they really deserve all this, won’t need to think of what they need to pay back for all this privilege that was just handed to them. That’s why they don’t care. That’s why she doesn’t care. She can’t care.
She thinks of third grandpa looking at her with pride. Her certificates, acceptance letters, even participation awards lined his sparse walls, right next to her mother’s accolades. Third grandpa, trying to talk to her, trying to reach out to the product of his dreams, but only managing a feeble “Have you had dinner?” She thinks of him pulling out the long unused Mandarin rather than his native Sichuanese that she could still only barely understand with his thick accent, asking how school is going, but not understanding anything that she could talk about. How does she explain prom, boyfriends, Harkness tables? How can she explain the petty complaints of dining hall food and lack of snow days to a man who had nothing? Who had everything stripped away from him? Only two generations apart, but two whole worlds apart. Third grandpa, so suffocating with love, with hope. She just wanted to shrink from his gaze. She can’t care. 
But with the help of the alcohol and the noise, she can’t stop thinking of that sparse room, of his wrinkled skin and calloused fingers. Look at how she’s bastardized his dream. This isn’t what third grandpa had wanted. But she doesn’t know how to fix it. It is all too overwhelming. Did third grandpa know that she is a disappointment?
         She’ll never know. Third grandpa is now a pile of ash. Lung cancer. A pile of ash like his dreams. He was the pile of ash from her cigarette, the most expensive kind, soft Chunghwas sold at 100 yuan a pack, the smoke of China. Your dream can’t turn into ash if you never had a dream. She closes her eyes and becomes a pile of ash.
________________


waiting rooms and plastic couches
[PC][PB]


i said to them, i said
“i am alone. i am all alone”
they listened, and they heard my testimony,
then they sent me on my way with a bouquet of lavender
and a pack of cigarettes. 
i was enraged
colicky
like an infant unfed.
but i was smitten with fury
ardent
decidedly a girl in love with pretense
and fine diction, 
with a penchant for dirty men
and rooms that reek 
of 
stale time
and self-pity.
________________


A Middle Class Poem
[PC] [DU]


I long to loaf.
No, even less.
I want to do nothing,
Except that isn’t exactly true,
I want to consume 
Hours of media 
Defy the calls for output.


I am all zeit and no geist 
I am a vast image hatched out of spiritus mundi,
A shape with baby bird body and  hapless human head.
Greasy, amniotic, in need of a shit, 
Slouching along the now deep-worn ruts 
From A to B. Toward the next feed.


The pen, I read, is mightier than the sword.
There. I’ve passed on what little I know.
Go and set the world on fire.
I find I have little use for either tool. 
Each is but an egg tooth,
And I care little to meet that part of me which 
Cannot make itself known
Within the confines of my shell.


That head. For all the chemistry transpiring within,
It struggles to understand much about the world without.
Color as a concept, for instance. 
Political particles displaying wavelike qualities.
The reality of walls, the implications for 
The ecosystems they trap, and their 
Holding up the roof
On which I, and a nation 
Of do-nothings have trod since 
Before I can remember. 


A child asked it once, my head, that is,
“What is wind?” and it told the kid that wind -- 
No matter what sound it makes, 
Whether it whips 
Through window drapes, sings 
Through a saxophone, or
Lub-dubs, soft and quick 
From an ultrasound, straight from a tiny heart, 
That wind is but a function of heat. 
That given the common thermal cradle, 
One wind might as well be the next.


The body, and the more 
Bodily bits of the head, 
Long to exercise more fully the right 
Of having no troubles in the least.
To be troubled with no troubles needing troubling over at all.
To bathe in the lethe and lose little of any importance. 
To forget the word,
Bethlehem, and slouch instead from bed, to table, to church, to couch,
To toilet, to bed with little desire to be born.


By now, we realize that we are chaff, though not
In the common sense of the metaphor.
We cling close enough to the fruit 
For which the species was cultivated
to be shorn likewise from the field by
the combine of Providence, 
Whisked away with newfound freedom,
The memory of common soil purged. 
We think little of the stalks and stems,
and feel even less.
________________


Pine Nuts
[PC] [DU]


I did not know 
Where pine nuts
Were grown
Until I read 
That some thirty Afghan pine nut farmers
Were consumed, 
Turned to human ash 
Or fine red mist,
Depending on whether it was 
The fireball 
Or the white-hot shrapnel 
Of the bomb sent
From the drone piloted
By the airman or airwoman
Who was sent to training
To learn to detect 
Potential pine nut farmers,
Discern
The good
Pine nut farmers
From the bad
And direct the drone
Accordingly.


I do not know
If these pine nut farmers
Were good or bad,
But I suspect, 
There will be a new batch soon 
Of hapless pine nut farmers to report on, 
In Syria, Iraq, Palestine,
Or perhaps in Nigeria,
In Yemen, or in Iran, 
In bloodied Crimean snowbanks, 
drowned below decks in the South China Sea.


As it happens, I heard just Monday,
The Turks have received
The Presidential O.K. 
To make pine nut farmers
Out of every Kurd 
Within twenty miles 
Of the border.


I do not know 
If pine nuts grow 
In Kurdistan or those other places.
You’ll know soon enough.
________________


Bonhomme
[PC] [DU]


There are two reasons you might not see Bonhomme before you find yourself in it. 
The first is this. Should you find yourself walking alone on a path beset on both sides by deep, black forest in the night, you will no doubt feel inclined to look up and cling to the stars strolling across the narrow channel of sky between the dark tops of pines, rather than peer too intently into the dark in any direction. This is because, in walking such a path, to peer ahead of oneself is to face that which has abandoned civilization to walk the road at night, or worse, that which has never known it at all. To look behind oneself is to give credence to nightmare. And to gaze into the wood is to understand death as a lateral shift. 
The second reason is that a new century has turned, the city’s grid has failed, and the strange fog dispersed by the city’s electric light and HVAC fans has settled again on the easy streets of Bonhomme. 
Such was the case when I reached the city. Then, as ever, the people of Bonhomme did as all city-dwellers must when given a chance to be someone else for a night, and flowed out into the street. I flowed with them through the descending mist -- though part of me knew the sin of it. Thus I committed two sins, I am ashamed to tell you, the sin of ignorance in flowing, and the sin of cowardly indiscipline -- ignoring the divorce of mind from body. As we moved through the streets, the night made all forget the light, and the mist made many forget the names of their mothers and fathers. Some rolled the letters of their own names about in their mouths like marbles. Unable to swallow them for fear of choking, they spit them out on those who dared not spit back, as well as those still peering skyward. 
When power was restored in the early morning, the good people of Bonhomme remembered themselves, troubled but little by a haze lingering at the edge of memory. 
________________


A Grand Deconstruction
[PC] [DU]


“This goodly frame, the earth, seems to me a sterile promontory, this most excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how express and admirable! in action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me, what is this quintessence of dust?”
― William Shakespeare, Hamlet


I thought that a building so grand would have a great boom to accompany its toppling, and yet, from this distance, it’s little more than a resounding grumble. The library had once been the center of town and had stood tall even when surrounding buildings crumbled. Today, however, the town decided to put it out of its misery. Like all buildings in town, it had been decaying for as long as I remember. The books inside, the only ones left to us, molder quietly on the shelves and the stacks seemed to grow dust no matter how vigorously one cleaned. The interior is sound, though, and so people flock there to pretend that nothing is falling apart. We used to go to museums to gaze at art in order to better understand the world, but now we glean hope from support beams. Even the strong and mundane crumble eventually, I suppose.
        Our gardens are wilting, our crops failing, and everywhere mold creeps. Grey seeps into buildings, through shoes, and into animals. Strays in the streets and alleyways collapse, their ears and eyes full of mold and despair. The Rot, as we called it, is insatiable.
        I’m against destroying the library. It’s finally succumbing, but it had life left in it still. I was outvoted, though, and was shit at arguing. The mayor, useless in most affairs, is very good at arguing. When argued enough, the most absurd option can become the ideal and so when the mayor said we shouldn’t bother with the books, no one else questioned him and the books were to be left to fester with the rubble. I could hardly believe it and, while I couldn’t be there, I assumed that others would sneak away with what they could.
        I’m sad to be missing the destruction ceremony, as are my companions, but it couldn’t be helped. We pause on our trek, nearly to the crest of the hill and out of the valley, to watch the great dome collapse and the resulting dust cloud surge out and engulf the crowd. From this distance I can pretend to see my roof.
        “I wonder how many books they saved,” I say, turning back the way we are headed and leading the other two forward.
        “None. Nobody reads anymore. ‘Cept you,” says Moore, a small woman of perpetual pessimism and condensed rage. She clenches her fists, holds it, and then relaxes them when anyone speaks.
        “Maybe the Bible. I heard somebody mention something about Bibles,” replies Harrison before bowing to tie his boot laces again. He refuses to double knot them, claiming they look silly, and so stops every hour to fix them, forcing the party to halt.
        “I don’t even read the Bible,” I say. It’s true. No one reads anymore. No one writes for pleasure, either, and so I’m the black sheep in town for keeping a journal. The young are taught to read, of course, but it’s done out of generational habit and necessity rather than pride or curiosity. “Used to, though.”
Moore kicks Harrison in the backside to get him moving again and off we go deeper into the woods.


        It’s not like we had never been in the woods before, because we have, but after days of travel in an ocean of trees, they stop looking like trees altogether. The deeper we go, the wider the trunks become and the thicker the canopy overhead until, on the fourth day, the sky stops being the sky. Branches overlap until only sickly green light filters through the leaves and hardly makes it to the ground.
        The forest floor becomes wilder too. Gnarly pool roots that don’t match the trees sprout up, making the path uneven and treacherous. Shoots and fungus eat up the sides of tree trunks; strange insects buzz from our shoulders to the branches and back, as if waiting for something; and the hum of the forest became incessant. Nothing at home is truly silent, but engulfed as we are and surrounded by teeming life it seems that every prickle and leaf is singing a joint song meant to deafen us. Moore appears unfazed, though she picked up a gnarled, fallen branch yesterday and is using it as a walking stick. Harrison, agitated as ever, just swats at the insects that seem to like him best. He pouts and stomps his feet, but is otherwise merry and hums to himself. When he becomes especially tuneless, Moore clenches her fists.
        It’s growing dark and Harrison’s boot becomes untied again so we stop for the day. It’s growing colder at night. It shouldn’t be, and doesn’t at home, but home is just a small grey valley miles away from us now. We rush to set up our camp and light a fire.
        Nothing is grey about the woods, I’d like to note, and at night things that should not glow begin to. The strange fungi, the leaves overhead, and even a few bugs, though the bugs were less out of the ordinary. The bugs would be a comforting commonplace if not for their incongruously large size. Just beyond our sight, twigs snap and small shapes scurry in the shadows. The warm orange of the fire chases away the more alien colors, but beyond our meagre light stretches the rest of the forest, now flooded with alien hues.
        For the first time since our mission began, I feel afraid. The mayor had asked, none to politely and with no je ne sais quoi of authority, for volunteers to find the other last settlement. It had been decades, he had said, since we had communed with our sister village and that, perhaps, they were faring better against The Rot. He hadn’t said that we needed help, but we all saw that we did. No one had volunteered. And then I raised my hand to ask about the library, for he had delivered the news of its imminent destruction a week prior, and was volunteered by the mayor. He then volunteered Moore, our best hunter, and Harrison, the least useful farmer.
        Once the three of us were volunteered, our friends and neighbors were much more supportive of our endeavour. Surely, our sister village thought us dead or worse, they told me. The butcher told me that it was great that I was going since I could practically bring our library  to them if they required it. I told him they may have a library and therefore would have no need of me, but the butcher only laughed. He had voted we destroy the library. He gave us all his salted meat rations the morning of our departure.
Our journey had, thus far, been less than epic, but I have a feeling it will not remain dull for much longer. Pulling out my journal, I begin to write it all down. To document our journey, yes, but also to write out every anxiety I feel to better ignore it. Sleep does not come easy with so much light and so much humming.
        I have to keep it together. This isn’t fair, but neither is The Rot, and this is the way that life is. I have to keep it together.




        Beastly is not the right word for the creature Moore shot. “Beast” doesn’t give the forest enough credit for creating such a masterfully awful thing. Picture the Mona Lisa and all her grandeur and then picture her half dead, her smile gone: she’s still the Mona Lisa, only now she’s gross. It’s like that.
        “Disgusting,” says Moore.
        “You don’t know that,” I huff.
        “I know it,” says Harrison, raising his hand.
        “Think it’s dead?” Moore asks and kicks it. Its tongue lolls out, all two feet of it, and lands with a slap in the undergrowth. It’s a mountainous bear-like thing. It resembles a ghoulish child’s drawing with it’s hulking forelegs, diminutive hindquarters, raging maw, and blue fur. If it had been alive, and non-murderous, I would have liked to see it in all its majesty. As it stood in reality, however, I’m relieved to find it dead.
        “Lick it and find out,” I tell Moore, and turned to survey the rest of the clearing. It isn’t naturally made since the cramped trees and thick undergrowth remain elsewhere, but enough time had obviously passed that it is no longer a perfect circle. The forest is rolling back inch by inch to reclaim the space. It had never relinquished the sky and even here great branches intertwine overhead. In the very center is a large pile of rotting wood and stone, perhaps once a shelter, and paths where the grass had been worn down spread out from one side. The sad remnants of a garden sits nearby and Harrison examines it closely and remarks on the technique used. The crops were long dead, but not by mold.
        “They tried to use trellises,” he says, “Maybe for peas. Maybe yams.”
        “Yams grow in dirt,” I call over to him, puzzled.
        “So do peas,” he says and wanders over to the shelter.
        Harrison kicks about in the debris that surrounds the foundation and yelps when his foot hits something with a dull thud. After a moment of hopping on one foot and swearing, he kneels and brushes at the pile of sticks and dirt. I make my way over and catch Harrison just as he jolts back, tripping himself on his own boot laces, once again untied.
        At the base of the hut is a skull, toothless yet grinning, and blindingly white in the noonday sun. Once recovered, Harrison goes about clearing away more of the surrounding rubbish to find more bones sticking out of the earth. It is still laid out in a rather person-like shape. Whoever it was had gotten a shallow burial, at the very least. There must have been another with this person, unless the bear-thing buried its latest victim.
        I pull the skull up, leaving a crater in the dry earth behind, and hold it aloft. “Alas, poor Yorick!” I say, waving it around until dirt dislodges from the eye socket and dusts Harrison’s jacket. “I knew him well,” I continued before dropping the poor bastard back to earth and standing. “A fellow of bullshit, of most buffoonery.”
        “I doubt that’s how that went,” growls Moore, finally joining us, and yanking a humerus from the ground. There are bite marks of some description down the side, though I don’t know which side it would be if the arm were still attached to a person. “Where’d their teeth go?”
        Harrison shrugs and glares at the bones.
        “It’s from Hamlet,” I say, “A play.” Neither of my partners look away from the skeleton for a long time and when they do they ignore my comment and begin arguing about the edibility of the bear-thing that had attacked us.
        We hadn’t heard it coming over the din of the forest, not until it was mere feet from Moore, and though its jaws were open, its feet pounding the earth on its way to us, it made no sound of its own until its last breath heaved out. Moore hadn’t cared or hesitated. I wonder, briefly, if she would be as fast to shoot it if I had been in front of her and not behind her.


        Days later, Harrison swore there were faces in the trees. He’d first claimed it a week previously, but now he rambles about each nobby bit of bark he notices. Moore has taken to whacking him with her walking stick when he gets too loud. Moore swears that the forest had ears, but has yet to accuse any particular tree of spying.
        I just hope we were still heading away from our town, as ordered to. As long as we head northeast, it’s feasible to reach the other last-known town. We aren’t the first group to be sent out, but no one had returned before. Nevertheless, everyone says it’s possible to reach the other village and return a hero. The woods just get deeper, though, and we haven’t see any other people, or remnants of people, since dear Yorick weeks prior. I can’t tell the direction the sun is moving through the leaves. Even at what I believe it to be midday, the forest floor is cloaked in shadow and most of our light came from the bugs and life on the ground.
        We meet more bear-things on our travels, though. They look nothing like the first bear-thing, but I continue to refer to them as such for they seem too intelligent to be referred to as beasts. I notice they all have very interesting eyes, sometimes like a cow's or a child’s. One bear-thing had hands and I could have sworn there was a glint of metal on one of them, but Moore had shoved me away before I could look closer. She hates the bear-things, but she still eats them like Harrison and I.


        The trees split apart. For weeks the trunks were just getting thicker and thicker, until even Harrison, with his considerable wingspan, could not hug them all the way around. Now, though, what would have been the trunk splits into dozens of wrist-width-sprouts. They still connect at the base, but shatter into tall veins that reach up and join the canopy.
        Moore has taken to boxing her ears every few minutes. It’s a hatefully welcome sound over the din of the forest. The trees are whispering, she tells me, and I tell her I thought that the forest was humming and she agrees to that, too. Her eyes are wild now. I think they may be the wrong color, but I’m having difficulty remembering why we’re here at all and who she is and what bears are.


[k]


        This bear-thing is red, red like Moore’s hair, and had been screaming. It’s the first bear-thing to do that as it charges from the trees. I’m now very afraid, and I think my friends are too. Moore had frozen at the sound and the bear-thing rammed her over. Its bulk had knocked some of Moore’s teeth loose and she howled.
I think it has Moore’s eyes. The color is rather off, but I’d recognize the crazed look anywhere. Moore is screaming now, I think. I think it’s Moore, but perhaps its the forest. It’s difficult to tell anything apart here.
        Harrison is doing nothing. He’s holding his face inches from a nearby tree, murmuring to himself.
        “Madness in great ones must not unwatched go,” I say, more to myself than to anyone else, but Moore’s gaze still snaps to mine and she still charges at me.


        I noticed that time passed. I only notice it sometimes. 
        Harrison and I are alone now. A woman was with us, I think, but then something else was with us that was very grand and very monstrous. I think she realized that she was very grand and very monstrous and ran away.
The woods around us are very loud, though, so I don’t feel lonely. Very loud indeed. Harrison doesn’t speak to me and I don’t speak to him.
T[l]he trees are no longer trees, either, and instead are ropey, ghastly, infinite cage bars that lurch out of the buzzing undergrowth every few feet and connect high in the darkness above us.
I feel out of place in myself. Something is in my throat and behind my eyes.
The bear-things keep coming. Yesterday I saw a red one, it clenched it’s paws a lot, but it didn’t charge us. Harrison shot it anyway. He isn’t a very good shot, but neither am I. We weren’t meant for that sort of activity.


We found a friend today. A dead one, but a friend nonetheless. This one also has no teeth and there’s a hole in its forehead. It isn’t Yorick, I know that by the hole. Harrison carries the skull for a few hours but drops it to tie his shoe and forgets to pick it up again. I don’t mention it.


This morning Harrison awoke choking on teeth. His are falling out.
The trees are becoming more tree-like. I think the earth is glowing a little less.


I can see the sun! It’s finally above us, but I don’t remember the sky being green. Harrison slurs that it’s always been green, but I’m not convinced. I know things and I know that I know things, but the forest makes it so hard to remember.
        I need to remember more, I know that. There’s so much more for me to remember and to remember that I know.


        “You know,” said Harrison, though I can hardly understand him, “I understand now. I do, I really do.”
        I say nothing. I think he’s speaking to a tree again.
        “Good-bye,” he says, and I think he’s speaking to me, but his gaze is fixed overhead, “Good-bye,” he says over, and over, and over again.
        “I read a book,” I said.
        “Good-bye, good-bye.”
        “And it said noble hearts crack.”
        “Good-bye.”
        “So what happened to you?”


        Time has passed again. I realize that now. 
        I’m writing this all down as the sun sinks below the treeline, now only visible as a man’s eye is in the sag of death, and I can see the outline of home far below me. I am writing all that has transpired so far. It’s too far to make it home. There is no library to be seen, I had nearly forgotten it’s destruction. Home looks far smaller now, too. The roofs look wrong and too clean. I can’t see my house from here, either, and I don’t remember my home being so well kept. I won’t ever be able to compare it to when I left and so I’ll never know. I think it’s ugly, though.
I[m] can feel it. My bones ache and my skin prickles.
        Harrison is gone. He succumbed early this morning in the grey of dawn and fled back to the depths of the woods. I didn’t have the heart to peek at him for he must have been monstrous to be so frightened of himself. He left one of his boots behind, but I don’t imagine he’ll need either of them.
        It won’t be long now, I don’t think. Perhaps this evening. It’s harder to resist at night when nothing is dark and everything hums. Even closer to a town, it hums. The hum clings. Invades. A loud rot. 
        I do hope no one finds me in here for if they do they won’t have long. Perhaps I’ll throw this journal as far forward as I can. Hopefully whoever follows, for surely others will, either out of desperation or ego, will find it and turn back. Or perhaps not.
        I remember reading about Mount Everest and its many bodies. A long time ago. The hikers that just couldn’t reach the summit and those that did and could not return. Those who were left behind by the aforementioned, too. Hundreds of them slumped over and preserved by the mountain. Cradled in the snow and wind for eternity, or very close to it. Humanity’s dues for trespassing, perhaps. Humanity used the bodies as landmarks and trudged past their fallen in search of the summit, though not out of any kind of necessity. I can’t fathom that, but I can forgive those who will come after me, here, in the woods. Home is decaying and the forest is full of life. Even now it appears to be a refuge, though a refuge without humanity.
        The woods are not a mountain and the bodies here are either rotten or very soon to be rotten, as I will be soon. To describe the forest as a nightmare would be to describe an ocean as bigger than a goldfish.
        It doesn’t matter now. The sun is gone and I can no longer see home. What is the use of this journal anyway.
        I can’t stop giggling, I just can’t, and my chest aches with it all. “Words, words, words,” I hear myself say, but it doesn’t sound quite right coming from my mouth now. Not right at all.
        “Words, words, words,” I say. That’s all this is. Take them apart and they’re useless, but no one in the world will read this. Perhaps I’ll burn this journal and it’ll be as destroyed as I will be. If someone reads this then they’ll know I chose to throw it. I have never been altruistic, but perhaps just this once. I briefly wonder if Mount Everest had warning signs, but it doesn’t matter.
        I know, and I know so few things now, that it is all ugly. The Rot and the woods are all the same to me. They’re ugly, but I can’t explain why.
        I’m holding my journal now. If I drop it like Harrison dropped his shoe, so be it, and if I don’t, those who come after me be more damned.


________________


Wildlife Expansion
[PC] [DU]


        The morning I heard the news about the Wildlife Expansion I was at home visiting my mother who told me that she had dreamed of this a week ago, this very thing, and now, amazingly, it was happening. Every bird and mammal was now twenty percent larger than they had been the day previous.
        Squirrels across the world were now ready to take on pre-expansion Jack Russell terriers and pigeons were now the basketball-sized menaces of every major city. The rats of New York City are unmentionable, but unquestionably too large for comfort.
        The midwest is now incredibly alarmed as the zombie deer virus outbreak is now affecting deer that are much larger than they had been. And, as most would assume, the larger zombie deer is the worse zombie deer. The blondest news anchor available said someone qualified said that someone more qualified in a different field saw a moose with symptoms of the same virus.
        The next morning at eight in the morning a violently colored banner zipped across the bottom of the screen, an emergency alert reminding people that animals were still bigger. “Animals have risen to new heights,” says the blond news anchor, “More on that at nine.” Animals are now forty percent larger than they had been and Mom keeps glancing at her German shepherd. He now takes up the entire living room loveseat and not just a single cushion.
        Zoos have no recourse. What do you do with car-sized lions, really? The elephants are a lost cause and so are the giraffes.


        Australia has announced a state of national emergency. There is a one to two ratio of humans to kangaroos and the ratio is not in humans’ favor. The blond news anchor says that “it used to be plague-like proportions, but now it’s… worse.” I didn’t entirely understand it, but I understood that, regardless, there were too many kangaroos. They should be glad that snakes and spiders weren’t growing otherwise Australia would be a lost cause. I also hope they have this resolved come magpie season otherwise they’re equally doomed.
        Three weeks since the initial Wildlife Expansion and animals have held steady at eighty percent larger than their original size. The zombie deer disease is still spreading, though the epidemic seems unrelated to the spontaneously growth of animals. The news anchor assured everyone that there will not be a zombie deer Armageddon in the near future. “I promise you,” he said, “My sources tell me that zombie deer disease does not make deer crave flesh, it’s just sad.” The anchor paused and looked behind the camera. “Oh,” he continued, “and it kills them. More tomorrow, bright and early.”
        I got off the phone with mom today and apparently she is considering buying her German shepherd a saddle.
________________


Divine Pigeon
[PC]


        “I’m going to do you a favor,” says the pigeon to God. The concept of God is abstract for a pigeon, but a pigeon such as this one understand the basics: you can talk to God. He knows this because he’s gotten stuck in not only an Episcopal church, but also a Catholic one and when God’s friend was sweeping him out with a broom he kept saying “dear Lord” and “God help me.” Pidge, for that’s what most pigeons called themselves, explained further, “I’m going to show you my collection.”
        From his perch on a suspiciously greasy fire escape, Pidge swung his wing imperiously over the Manhattan street below. Turning his pecker skyward—heavenward, some humans say—he began the tale. “You see, humans are so easy to collect. My pals grab wrappers. Pidge has so many burger papers it’s nutso. Pidge has more earrings than there are ducks in Central Park. Me, though, I like the humans. They organize themselves. I don’t even need a nest to keep them in. 
        “Look, look at that one,” he says, bobbing his head to the street again. There walks a woman in perilously narrow and tall heels, a cellphone to her ear. “She’s always got the sharpest plumage. I don’t mean sharp like stylish, like oh wow look at her she’s as sleek as a swan. No, she just has shoulder pads and you could put your eye out on the pointy corners. Those shoes? Wowee, I have nightmares about getting stepped on with those. 
        “She’s real ambitious, though, that’s why she dresses all sharp. It’s socially unacceptable to carry swords around, so you have to stick them to your shoulders and your feet and sometimes your ears. I’ve followed her to work a few times, and she needs all of that. It’s good for her.” Pidge trailed off, scouring the ground for the others in his collection. Cooing, he hopped along the fire escape bannister, following the speedy one he’d spied as best as he can. 
        “That one! Oh, God, I bet you love that one. He’s an artist, but not a good one. It doesn’t stop him.” The boy in question, pizza-faced and grinning with bits of food perpetually stuck in his braces, sped by on his skateboard. “Well, I bet you can see him even better than I can, but have you seen his stuff? C’mere, God, I’ll show you.” Without waiting for an answer, because this God was clearly a verbally restrained sort of guy, which Pidge could appreciate, he dipped forward and dropped from his perch. The stuffy updraft let him sail across the street, over the traffic lights and crosswalks and on to a roof about a block away. 
        “Ah, shit, fuckrats,” Pidge exclaimed, stepping daintily over the bird spikes lining the bricks, his feathers ruffling and rising like a bush in the breeze. “You have to do something about these, you know, it’s too preemptive if this is what’s awaiting me in hell.” He found a safe corner to perch and clucked excitedly down at the alleyway between buildings. There was a mound of trash bags in the corner and food wrappers carpeted the pavers. On the brick wall was a big graffiti mural. Given that he was a pigeon, Pidge had no idea what it said, and given that the boy was an awful artist he also couldn’t make out what it was supposed to be, but it was green, orange, and pink.
        “Y’see why I like this one? He’s got an eye, a good eye. I bet if he was in charge of designing birds he would’ve given me those colors.” Musing like this was a good pastime for birds like Pidge, like all the Pidges. It’s rough being a pigeon when there were parrots and budgies and peacocks. Even swans were all elegant in their minimalism. “Sorry, sorry, God, this wasn’t supposed to be about me. Listen, I know you’re busy—that church was real full when I dropped in—but let me show you this one last one, this one’s a good one.”
        Once more Pidge took flight, rising above the tight-knit buildings and sailing over the stink. The city could look small like this, but pigeons always knew how big it really was. Everything was so tall when you’re small. 
        He alighted on the windowsill of a squat building, it’s awning below was tattered and faded like a dying cardinal. “This one I’ve named. This one is named Steve. Here, look, this window has a good view.” Pidge bobbed out of the way so the sky could have an unfettered view through the grimy window. Inside sat Steve, an elderly man with hair like uncolored cotton candy that sat in a halo over his ears and connected to his unibrow, in front of the television. “He used to do a whole lot more. He had this woman with him, Stevenie, and they’d go walk in the park. They’d see the artists stuff and they’d ooh and awe and they’d smile at that lady who needs a sword.” Pidge watched as Steve sighed, harrumphing, and changed the channel. “He used to feed us pigeons in the park, the ducks too. Even the swans liked him enough.”
        Pidge looked up again at the clouds. “Hey, next time I’ll show you the rest of my collection, cause I think you’ve been missing some of the good ones. The real good ones. You know them now, though.” The pigeon dismissed God, turning back to the window and the old man sat in front of the tv, an empty armchair next to him. 


































________________


You
[PC]
You lost, didn’t you? You lost your daughter, then your wife, and then your daughter again. I wonder when you lost yourself. Was it when your father hit you? Was it when you had nearly a dozen siblings who cast shadows over you, one of the youngest? Was it when you first picked up a drink that had been fermenting longer than you were able to stay in school, and get an education before you were told to drop out and come home to work on your family’s ranch? Who are you? There is so much I don’t know about you. You’re my father, but half of what I have just written is pure conjecture. You did that. You made yourself a figment of my imagination. As a child I worshiped you. I missed you because you were never around. You were working. You were doing what your parents had taught you; putting providing for your family above all else, which included the well-being of your family members.
Your wife told you that she needed you at home, but you had never been taught how to do that. You had never seen it growing up. You tried but you were tired. You felt like you were doing your job and yet she was always disappointed and asking for more. Asking for things you didn’t know how to do. So you looked for comfort in your daughter. The tiny baby girl who didn’t know to fear you yet, and who admired you and loved you more than anything. Who cried when you were at work for weeks at a time, and who knew she was daddy’s girl. She prided herself in that title. It became her blindfold. You saw something that you had never seen before. You saw unconditional love. Something you didn’t get from your parents, your siblings or even your wife. You saw it in this small girl. And once you felt it you knew it was all you wanted. And you began to resent the woman who married because she had developed into an adult and recognized that unconditional love is sickness when you are above a certain age.
You began to resent the woman you married for not giving you the unconditional love that your toddler did. You grew angry. She wanted to go to therapy but you had been raised to think that going to a person for help for anything was a sign of weakness rather than strength. You got divorced. A sign of failure in your family. Then she tried to take your baby girl away. You had already lost a daughter in childbirth. And now she was trying to take away the one human in the world who loved you unconditionally? Hell to the fucking no. She was the monster. And I was the prize.
You fought. You fought your ex-wife. You fought the judge. And you won. Your little ray of sunshine would have to visit you four weeks a year. I was your everything and you would have to make do with four weeks.
But then something changed. I grew up enough to realize that I didn’t want to spend two weeks at a time with a man who I didn’t know. I now cried for my mother and not you. I now cried when she left and I was with you. The one person who gave you unconditional love for the first time in your entire 54 years of life was now taking it back? She couldn’t. You wouldn’t let her. You would shower her with gifts. That didn’t work. You would bring another woman into your life to be your daughter’s mother when your ex-wife was not there. That didn’t work.
This small child continued to cry. She cried all fucking night! She kept you up reminding you again and again that she didn’t love you. Maybe she never loved you. But you could change that. You could make her love you. You could make her love you.
You showed her you were stronger than her. You showed her you were bigger. You used the tactics your parents had taught you on how to raise a child. You got on top of her and pressed your penis hard into her crotch with her legs sprawled and made her call “uncle” again and again when she couldn’t push you off with her tiny legs. You had her pretend to be a possum and you would tower over her and sniff and paw as the predator that you were. You showed her that fear and love were one in the same right? And it worked. She started to learn. If she was good and obedient and didn’t cry, she would be rewarded. This wasn’t wrong. This was showing her how the world worked. You respected and loved the things that could hurt you if you didn’t. You weren’t a pedophile, you were a teacher and a father. You were helping her learn. You were getting back the unconditional love that you craved.
But then oh shit she grew up again, didn’t she? And she started putting pieces together. She turned the “she”’s into “I”’s, and I started to figure out why I was scared of my male teachers. And why I jumped when people closed their binders. And why I felt so inferior and ashamed. Why I always felt like I had to prove myself. Why I liked checking the boys into the wall during sports. Why I too started to look for unconditional love. But I was smarter than you. I put the pieces together and put the shit you had dumped on me in small boxes and put them away when I was done grieving them. And then I cut you out. Your last chance to find what you thought you needed was gone. You had never seen her as an opponent until that nice policeman showed up on your doorstep with the restraining order from your newly 18-year-old daughter. And you lost her again.
I get it now. I get why you did it and what you were thinking and what you were trying to do. I’m sorry for the baby boy who was abused, and for the young man who was met with hate and disapproval instead of love. I’m even sorry for the adult who now drinks to try and quiet the demons in his mind. I get why you did it all. You are sick and you need help. I’m strong enough now to see that I was not the only victim in our story. But I’m different than you. I’ve tamed the monsters in my mind and now they fuel my fire. I will never say that what you did was fucking okay. But I forgive you. I will never be like you. You are my antithesis. I fight the DNA you gave me every day. I am winning. I have won. And I will win.
































[a]Moved this from second stanza
[b]Every other lines here is indented in the original
[c]drawer?
[d]All indentations are aligned.
[e]Not necessary to copy edit
[f]Added indents at the start of the paragraphs.
[g]Indentations/spacing between paragraphs are like this is OG
[h]Original did not have a space in between these two paragraphs, I don't know if that was anything intentional though
[i]Indentations to start paragraphs
[j]Some of the indents pasted weirdly, so they have more spaces than a normal tab. I just deleted and replaced each one with a tab
[k]Two indents?
[l]Indent here
[m]Indent