I bring the old days back —a crucial test And twine with them the love thou didst bestow On one whose battles with a stubborn foe, The world, has not dethroned thee from his breast. Queen school to me! not worldly scorn nor jest Shall ever exile thee. In weal or woe Of thee I sing—yet in an overflow Of words is lost thy song of all songs best; A song which heard in arid city street Should make the slave of dollars pause to hear The tongues of trees, the brooks with prattle sweet, And drink the air of fields. For doubt and fear, Like plumy dreams in troubled sleep, retreat, When sounds thy call to duty trumpet clear.
Ere she was married she banged her hair, And courted the mirror by days and by nights; Now with her slipper and motherly care— Since she is married she bangs her heir, Kindly but firmly fashioning fair The future voter for women's rights. Ere she was married she banged her hair And courted the mirror by days and by nights.
Not all the joy the perfumed new-born day Bestows, nor yet the sunburst of the sky At eventide, when day begins to die, Nor blackest nights, when stars no light display, When lurid clouds the lightning's flash convey To earth, nor grandeur that could these outvie Would picture, classmates, what I'd prophesy, If mine it were your future to forelay I'd build a shrine for you in Fame's own heart; Not ivory strong, nor bright enduring gold, But noble deeds would be its builder's art, Great deeds as lasting as the race is old, High deeds, which Alma Mater's joy and pride In after years would loudly blazon wide.
Lead, Kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom, Lead Thou me on ! The night is dark, and I am far from home — Lead Thou me on ! Keep thou my feet; I do not ask to see The distant scene,—one step enough for me. I was not ever thus, nor prayed that Thou Shouldst lead me on. I love to choose and see my path; but now, Lead Thou me on ! I loved the garish day, and spite of fears, Pride ruled my will: remember not past years. So long Thy power hath blest me, sure it still Will lead me on, O’er moor and fen, o’er crag and torrent, till The night is gone, And with the morn, those angel faces smile Which I have loved long since, and lost awhile.
“ Earth’s but a painted stage.” Ay?—and this world A panoramic play, An empty show whose acted scenes are furled Within the past? Ah, nay, — Dire tragedy where Time enacts his role, Oppressing Life’s poor day, As base conspirator, and hero Soul, Doth foil the fiend Decay. Why do these mortal actors come and go? Who planned the play may tell. “Mere puppets, they?” Then why doth Heaven glow When mines would fain excel, While eager Seraph throngs from out the spheres Observe the action swell, The riving conflict, seething joys and tears That from the tumult well. See where the silent toiling years have rolled The scenery from the past, Where oft the knell of glory’s dream was tolled That finds its grave at last; See where on History’s mottled page portrayed Great nations late were massed, What ruins of phantom grandeur there displayed, While mankind stands aghast! The crumbling East is dead, and now the end Of circling scenery In westward course draws near; while loud ascend ’Mid mighty pageantry Glad choral voices chanting Freedom’s song. Wrapt in expectancy The angel audience waits ; its myriads long That glorious end to see.
O Mary, queen and advocate above, Through whom the peace of heaven came to earth, Sweet mother mine, whose spotless womb gave birth To Christ, the ceaseless fount of all our love: As pure as cloudless skies ; the vestal dove That dips its snow-white pinions silently Beneath the crystal stream, Thou art to me, And sweeter far than e’er my words can prove. O fair! O purest! stretch Thy kindly hand To lead me safe to life’s eternal shore, And show to mine exiled eyes that Fatherland, Where angel voices call me back once more, And bid me gladly enter there as guest, To dwell with God in never-ending rest.
AH prithee, speed thy futile flight, No harpy's feast is here ; No harvest ripe in blood to blight; No pampered realms to sear. Here breathes perennial youth, O Time ; At last thy spite is foiled. Betake thee to some baser clime, Where earth's fair robe is soiled. Feast where beneath a death-foul wave The cities of the plain, Curse-whelmed, within their pulsing grave, To vision yet remain. Where Egypt mourns her mystic rites, Those homes of royal clay That vainly rear their sombre heights, To bar the vulgar day ; Where Asia veils her guilty page, Whose elder records show, Chaotic, crime and taint of age, And man's historic woe. There gorge thy ample maw, O Time, Where nations lie entombed ; Nor rage to waste a happier clime, By Freedom's sun illumined.
Poets, ye would gain fair guerdon ; Ye would grasp the prize of glory, If ye learned the plaintive burden Of sad nature's silent story, It ye solved its latent spell. Ah, but did j'e learn it well? Nature speaks a cryptic tongue, Murmured mid that solitude Whence your poet's song is sung. Doth her mj'stery elude Her elected priests, her prayer Rising vain to realms of air? Vainly, for, from nature's altar When your mystic chants arise, Oft, methinks, your accents falter; Oft ye taint her sacrifice. Have ye still your task disdained, And your natal vows profaned? Poets! poets! have ye vainly Lost the secret ye should learn? Have ye basely; aye insanely Taught your souls the truth to spurn ? Guiding soul by pride's volition, Have ye marred your sacred mission? Ye have felt the odic throbbing Of the spring-grove; the despair Of the autumn forest sobbing From vast depths its formless prayer. Ye have felt with subtle feeling. Could ye scorn this mute appealing? Ye have listened to the wailing, To the pleading of the night-wind, Whispering anguish to the quailing Night-cloud. Ye have read the lightning, Read the fire-scroll of the sky, Was it read with tearless eye Ye have heard the soulful cadence Of the heart-moan of the ocean.' Marked the fevered, wild impatience Of the sea-breast, whose emotion Called upon you for a token. Must such prayer remain unspoken? When supernal gleams might break O'er the vista of your dreams, And the gasping soul would wake To no joy that merely seems. Were ye priests and could not feel Nature to her God would kneel? All the music of fair fancies Echoes feebly o'er life's ways. God hath sent ye great romances Meet to swell your diapase. This your office : to blend singing With the praise from nature springing.
The glowing path of that chaste primal ray, That whilom flashed on earth's unsullied face, Passed sorrowfully near death's coiling place; And, since the dread eclipse of Eden's day, 'Neath sombrous pall life's path had wound its way, Sin-mystery obscuring suns of grace. As on a tablet blank, the recreant race Hath heavenward gazed, where Justice frowning lay, Till once a path was cleft to heaven's gate A path made golden by a passing rare World-wide. Unto a realm confederate It ope'd the way for virgin choirs of prayer. And showed life's terminus a crowned state, Its glorious perspective ending there. 
An Arriere Pensee Just a little horse I procured one day. Him I rode of course Just a little way. Now I have remorse, I think it did not pay, To ride the little horse I procured that day.
ALONG the slumbering river's noiseless bank, That slowly seeks in wanderings for the sea, To seek therein its lost eternity, The lily nestles deep in meshes dank. Sweet flower, near thee the hastening river flows And cannot pause; yet ere it seaward goes, Would fain beneath thy waxen buds repose. Thou art both white and fair. Thy perfume scents the scented air, And wheedles out the wild bee from its lair, And in thee lily-cradled keeps him dreaming there. Near by thine ugly comrade's yellow bud Bobs gently on the bayou's wrinkled face; With noisome smell and form devoid of grace, It floats its broad, flat, leaves upon the flood. O dog-named one, no honey seeking bee In wandering quest pays any court to thee; From thee the brook itself would gladly flee. Deep sunk in life obscene, A stranger to the meadows green, Thou jarrest with thy plashy, vulgar, mien The shimmering glory of the sun's reflected sheen. Yet from each bud a stem descends to earth, And each sucks life from out the fenny bog, Where turtles glide, and lurks the clammy frog And slimy things to which the mud gives birth. And so with life. The self same moral food Supplies us all. And some take what is good, And some mix what they take with passions rude. On manhood's verge are we. So let us stop, and thinking, see Wherein the better course would seem to be, And taking it, fight well the fight, and die sin-free.
If I but knew what the tree-tops say, Whispering secrets night and day; If I but knew what the birds on high, So sweetly warble beneath Love's sky; I'd make a song For you, To sing throughout your whole life long,— If I but knew. If I but knew how the lilies brew Nectar rare from a drop of dew; If I but knew what in trellised bowers The night-winds tell to listening flowers, I'd make a song For you, And speak of days when Love was strong; If I but knew. If I but knew what brook and river Murmur softly, murmur ever; If I but knew a tuneful word, Sweet as the note of a wooing bird; That word I'd sing To you, An answer from your lips to bring— If I but knew.
How sweet a consolation fills my soul, As on this smiling, pictured face I gaze! 'T would seem as if some fairy fingers raise The curtain of the past and slowly roll Before'me on a panoramic scroll The varied scenes of early boyhood days : Those days so blest by her whose picture sways Me now with thoughts that grieve and yet console. O Mother! Death was robbed of half his sting By him who thus depicted that sweet smile Which plays about those lips and seems to bring Thee back to me to soothe my soul awhile! How noble is the art that thus could trace And make endure thy sweet maternal face!
The mellow gleam Of sunny joy that lightened all the land But yesterday, Like some stray star-beam gliding o'er the strand, Or bloom of dying flowers, hath passed away, As 'twere a dream. A vision fair, In sooth, as moonlight's sleep on tranquil seas, With happy throng , Of fleeting hours, whose myriad melodies Tuned to the tremblings of the thrush's song Made music rare. Then radiant day Was wont to linger with the glowing eve : Now cold winds moan, The dull night weepeth, and the bare groves grieve, And thus we tread long weary ways alone Till dawn of May. But should not we, Though passing now midst ruin, yet esteem And fondly feign The Spoiler's ruthless work a darkening dream ; Since flowers still live to crown the perfumed plain And grass-grown lea. 
To hold the rein She seeks the right. For 'tis her gain To hold the rein. And tho' in vain This woman's fight To hold the rein She seeks the right. 
Hail, Prince of Peace, source of celestial light, That through the ages dim to this new day Dost shine with mien benignant, tenderest ray, How glad we greet and worship in thy sight! What tidings from thy holy mountain height Bring'st thou to lowly earth, through Heaven's bright wa> ? Thy message is sweet peace; and us who stray From Virtue's path, thou hop'st to guide aright. Nor speakest thou with flash and thunder shock, That erst from Sinai's peak, did loud declare The law to trembling peoples, terror-wild; But soft as shepherd's voice to wandering flock Entreatest thou. Oh, generous, whole-souled care, More fond and true than mother's love for child !
Like hymns that greet the morning-gold, A stream of song flows down the dale, And lingers on the wintry wold, Like hymns that greet the morning-gold, Or fragrance that fond zephyrs hold To scatter through the spring-tide vale.— Like hymns that greet the morning-gold A stream of song flows down the dale. Where dim lamps gleam by altar sides, A deep and mystic gladness dwells; A new-born sense of joy abides, Where dim lamps gleam by altar sides; And through the land a music glides That like an angel anthem swells. Where dim lamps gleam by altar sides A deep and mystic gladness dwells. 'Twould seem life shares some peace divine, For kindliness now reigns supreme, And hearts are chastened at its shrine.— 'Twould seem life shares some peace divine. Dark Care hath hid his futile sign, And sorrow fades like a wasted dream. — 'Twould seem life shares some peace divine, For kindliness now reigns supreme.
IN the summer night when the wind is still, That fretted the flowers the whole day long, And I hear the note ot the whipnooru ill As he flits adown the purpling hill, I love to enter the Land of Song. I love to float in the sky of thought, Like a cloud of pearl and amethyst, Or like a flower by the breezes caught, A purple flower with perfume fraught, And borne away through the golden mist. 0 ! yes, I delight to leave the strife, The sorry strife ot a sordid world, And steal away to a larger life, With love, and flowers, and sunshine rife, Where the very ground is impearled. 1 enter the golden gate that bars The land of song from the land of strife, And I gaze on the dancing sea-of-stars And the champac flowers and the camalatas That bloom in that higher life. O! the Land of Song is a land that lies Beyond the verge of the vermeil west, Where the sunlit seas and the sunlit skies Merge into the realm of Paradise, And isles of the sweetly Blest. And sirens singing across the sea On silver zithers and ziraleets, Call over the waves invitingly, And woo with their magic minstrelsy To their shady sylvan seats. And wandering on through the garden gay, With its flowers the fairest ever seen, Adown frescades where the fountains play And fall and flash in the sunlight's ray, And fling their gems on the green. I come to the silvern sands that sing, The silver sands that sing in the sun, When the zephyr flits on his silken wing O'er pebbles of pearl and makes them ring Till the day in the west is done. And sauntering toward the hills of gold, I come at last to the fountain bright, Where undines play with the mermen bold, In the blue pellucid waters cold, Or sing in the amber light. And brilliant birds on the brightest wing Sail over the sweetly scented scene, Or deeply hid in the roses sing Such songs as only a seraph's string Can shake on the wind I ween. And out of the aisles and alleys green Of the gloomy groves, the sweetest strains Float over the dells the fells between, And fall on the flowers, that glow and gleen, As softly as golden rains.
O ! its silver song from the dappled dawn When the smiling sun like a lily lies On the placid wave, till the morrow morn Relumes the lake and the lilac-lawn In this beautiful Paradise. And it's always May in the Land of Song; When the brightest birds in the brightest bowers Make love and music the whole day long, And the dimbles, dells and dingles throng With the fairest, trimmest flowers. And O ! the beauty, the bloom, the blush Of the flossy flowers that bud and blow On the banks and braes, —no painter's brush With the richest dyes can give the flush Of the gardens there that glow. For the richest red is too pale a tint For the musky roses that flourish there, And blue is black to the hues that print Their tones on the lilacs light that glint In the balsam-breathing air. And vainly, vainly I pluck the blooms, The golden-flower and the hyacinth, To plant below in my garden glooms, But ah ! they fade witn their sweet perfumes, The columbine and the calaminth. And vainly, vainly the silver sands, That sing and shine in the splendid sun, 1 try to take in mine eager hands; But they melt like dew on flowery-bands When the garish day's begun. And the songs,—the marvellous melodies, That witch the sense till it swoons away, The songs that float o'er the lawns and leas, To reproduce on my lute at ease, Alas ! in vain I essay. For the bloom and beauty that blushes there, The dulcet notes and the glittering gems So delicate are, so fine and fair, They fail to live in our grosser air, And fade like flowers on the stems. And whosoe'er from that tragic land Would fain its melodies take away Is like to him, who with eager hand Would grasp the light, or the breezes bland, That flit o'er the garden gay. Nor doth it avail the poet bright, When earthward flown, he attunes the lute To the songs he heard in the land of light, . For howsoever his fingers smite And sweep the strings, they are mute. Yes, vainly he sweeps the silver strings;— The music back to the birds has fled; Yet oft when the star to the sleeper brings Sweet dreams, it flashes the light of its wings On his sleep, and soon is sped.
I hang my harp by Babylon's wave And sit me down beside; The thoughts and tears I cannot stay Flow onward with the tide. I cannot pray thee bear him back, (Do streams flow from the sea?) But guide my bark to sunny isles Where he must surely be. A man, a priest the world has lost; Few such doth Heaven lend! Weep, World! but what's vour grief to mine, For I have lost a Friend? O sainted spirit, genial soul, Rest now thy work is o'er. In many a heart thou wilt live long, In one, for evermore.
An angel, so the olden legend tells, To earth’s fair garden flew, And plucked a white rose from the mossy dells Where flowers grew. “Sweet emblem of my Queen, thou ne’er shalt know Fading nor petal crushed, At Mary’s feet I’ll lay thee down.” And lo ! The flower blushed.
Over the fields of snow, Glad sunset streams, Wiih gorgeous, changeful glow, Over the fields of snow. Gemlike the high banks grow In the sun-beams, While o'er the fields of snow Gently with foot steps slow, As twilight gleams, In revery’s bliss I go, Over the fields of snow.
In days of boyhood I roamed the wildwood With heart as light as The ocean’s foam ; No thought of sorrow Did I then borrow From hours so bright that I called my own. On tree-tops swinging The birds were singing Their sweetest carols Of joy most dear ; Yet silence golden In the chantry olden Away from discord, Was to me more dear. I’ve heard the breaking Of the deep sea making Its low moan ever In wild unrest; And dark pines sighing, And zephyrs vieing With the night-bird cooing In its downy nest. But ah! more thrilling, My sad soul filling With sweeter music Than mortals hear, Is the silence golden, In the chantry olden, Away from discord, With my Saviour dear.
The pale moon lends a silvery sheen The dark lake's restless waves to cheer, While many a merman hold. I ween. And many an elf on moorland drear Is quaking now with a new-found fear, For a phantom crew from the shores of night That sailed down the ways of the winding mere Hath veiled the realm in mystic white. The gaunt groves gazed with marvelling mien— With fir-fringed brows and garments sere— While the subtlest fairies e'er Fancy hath seen Were weaving on hillside far and near Alraiment that gleams in the starlight clear With myriad gems. Oh wondrous sight! 'Tis the roguish Pixies' trickery here I lath veiled the realm in mystic white. llark! the sad owl plaints to the winds that glean The harvest-frost —the roses' bane— While they moan their dirge with voices keen : Lo ! the waves are bound in an adamant chain, And the stars from the sea-glooms begin to wane, Slow droops the moon, and the mystical flight Of the eeriest night of all the year I lath veiled the land in mystic white. ENVOY. Say, Prince, shall the fair rose claim a tear That perished by the Pixies might? Av, let us weep bv her pearl-hung bier, Her realm is veiled in mystic white.
I whispered a word to a butterfly. Sweet message and brief as he fluttered by : I bade him ask of my gardener fair A kiss from her ruby lips so rare. But whether it reached her I cannot say. For messages oftimes go astray : And whether she'd grant the kiss, ah, who knows? For I am only a red garden rose.
Youth cannot last, 'Tis fleeting as a dream, How soon 'tis past! Youth cannot last — Fading as fast As twilight's waning beam, Youth cannot last, 'Tis fleeting as a dream.
My weary head drops on my breast Before this stupid Greek translation. In working out a classic jest, My weary head drops on my breast. Yet I must still plod onward. lest I fail in the examination. My weary head drops on my breast Before this stupid Greek translation.
The mandolin's rich, ringing tone Comes floating through the purpling air, As I lie dreaming here alone. The pleasant day has almost flown, And softly steals through sunset's glare The mandolin's rich, ringing tone. The sweet notes soothe me, lying prone Among the grass and daisies fair, — Lying and dreaming here alone. Such strains in Lotus-land were known, — Not thrilling viol nor trumpet's blare, But mandolins' rich, ringing tone. My raptured spirits earth disown, My heart rejects all thought or care, As I lie dreaming here alone. The birds their lesser skill bemoan, When they with their glad notes compare The mandolin's rich, ringing tone, As I lie dreaming here alone.
" 'Tis passing strange," the rosebud said, And turned, in sorrow, her graceful head Towards the violet. " 'Tis strange, that forth from Nature's hand Our budding fragrance should expand, A pleasure wasted." " 'Tis sad," the trembling violet said, And the crystalline snowflakes downward sped, " Ay, sad, in sooth ; A week ago all Nature smiled, The wind blew soft, the sun shone mild, And all was jo v. The stars gleamed brighter than e'er before, The moon and owl made love as of vore, When night was come. The birds of spring sang a merry song, And the woodland nymphs in a sportive throng Tripped by the shaded ways along, And murmuring brooks. Now the wind blows coldly across the mere, And Nature, ere bright, looks sullen and sere, And in ghastly stillness, the bleached snow, drear, Unwelcomed is falling." The violet, sighing full mournfullv, Looked on the withering rosebud tree — The wind piped death's shrill threnodv, And the white snow drifted. 
She came by the slumbering deep, While the waves softly crept up the sand; Night hastened her season of sleep, The shadows hung over the land. While the waves softly crept up the sand, She came to me, tripping along; The shadows hung over the land, She filled all the air with her song. She came to me, tripping along, Love shone from her eves at each glance: She filled all the air with her song; — Our meeting was purely by chance. Love shone from her eyes at each glance; Ah, why did she pause in surprise? Our meeting was purely bv chance, And hot, angry tears filled her eves. Ay, why did she pause in surprise? O, sad was our meeting, indeed! • And hot, angry tears filled her eyes,— 'Twas thus cruel fate had decreed. O, sad was our meeting, indeed ! And all my remonstrance was vain ! 'Twas thus cruel fate had decreed— We met, and we parted in pain. And all my remonstrance was vain— She spurned me with her dainty toe! We met, and we parted in pain,— We parted, our hearts filled with woe. She met me by moonlight, alone, Night hastened her season of sleep ; Alas! I'm only a stumbling-stone— She came by the slumbering deep.
'Twas early morn. The wonted shade Above green field and wooded glade, Still made the shrub and tree-top seem Bedimmed, as visions in a dream. No living thing from covert strayed, And nought the stilly hour betrayed Save dulcet purlings from the stream, — 'Twas early morn. No more the after-gloom was stayed; Full into view in beauty played Above the hills a new day's gleam, And earth on one enchanting theme An impulse of pure love obeyed That early morn. Triumphantly arose the strain, From out the world, where death had lain, — To-day He's risen ! O behold ! Our Shepherd comes to greet His fold. Then lo! the woodland choirs were fain To sing anew their glad refrain, And echoes in this hallowed vein A thousand times its joyance told — Triumphantly. The while in splendor burst amain, Love's light across the verdant plain, And quiet vale, and forest old. On all the world, deep tinged with gold, A light of glory seemed to rain— Triumphantly.
Sweet spring is here. On hill, in dell, In sheltered nook, the flowers dwell, The while the swaying boughs between Myriad fair choristers are seen, And naught their tuneful notes can quell. The warming showers at last compel The field-lily to ope its cell, And sunshine plays upon its sheen— Swe'et spring is here. Who in this blithesome time can tell Whence comes this gladness to dispel Our winter's dream ? In cool ravine And mossy glen, the rose, I ween Will blossom soon ; and all looks well, — Sweet spring is here.
He comes to greet the death oppressed, A nursling wafted from above, With gracious gifts of light and love — What welcome waits this royal guest ? Grim skies spread o'er the dying year, Like draperies of ghostly shrouds; No sunset bloom to fringe the clouds, When blending shades of night appear. A storm-swept world, wild winds that moan O'er the desolate earth enwrapped in gloom, Sad with the sorrows of the tomb, And the ocean's dismal tone. Down sinks the world to her sepulchre, Like one unmourned, forsaken, old, With no sad paean softly tolled, Nor loveful heart bewailing her. HIS PASSING. How passes the guest on His royal way? Showering His gifts of life and light; The fair year waxing wondrous bright 'Mid the lustre of the sun-loved day. And a radiant world, whose hills and streams Are rose-flushed in the purpling glow, Of the splendrous dawn ; a gem-like show Of dews that flash in the new day's beams. A glorious sparkle of the sea;— A rainbow tint athwart the strand ; Glad spring life bursting on the land To the sound of the lark's antiphony. Responsive trills from a carolling throng: The green mead sprinkled with violet: A hint of the rose and mignonette In the burden sweet of the south wind's song. And a appled sky with a fleece-white screen, Lucent by night with tremulous stars, Like a lake whose rest no blithe breeze mars, Resplendent in the moon's soft sheen.
"Thou shalt sanctify the fiftieth year, because it is the year of jubilee." — Lev. xxv. 10. Some lives are garlands; every passing year An interwoven flower of kind And hue diverse, and framed to bind About the brows we honor and revere. And some are harps, that add each year a string Of richest metal 'till the whole Makes golden music in the soul, When jubilees their days of jovance bring.
When blustering north winds ceased to chafe the strand, And gentler seasons, born of mellower light, Brought violet-wreathed hours, and the tilth was bright With spring, and bursting May-buds crowned the land, Out of the fruitful earth, the mustard seed, (Which is the least of all seeds) thrust its blade : And as the days waxed warm the shoot was made A mighty growth; and many in their need Found shelter from the sun-darts, when the skyWas fervor-rift and summer's brow was hot. And many a weary wing its branches sought From where the morn-laved eastern waters plv, — Murmuring their incessant lull-a-bv Through drooping poppy heads and dull mid-air, And whence the faded west enshrouds the glare Of heaven's splendor, when the night is nigh. Hail! mystic spring-tide of a Sabbath year, O holy budding of a sacred germ! Lo! how the new day beameth and the sprout is firm, And its stem grows stronger and the fruit is near! O sacring tree! deep-planted by the side Of running waters, half a hundred years Of golden harvests thine; the chill-blast sears The quivering leaves, the garnered fruits abide. And may this blessed day of jubilee Be only harbinger of brighter days, Whose clustered fruits, like summer's, ceaselessly Will grow in golden worth through all life's ways. O happy thou! when summer's days are past, With store like this to face the winter's blast.
I. Out of the regions of eternal splendor, A spirit garmented and winged with light, The self-existent One, the Father tender, Throned amid clouds insufferably bright, Evoked, and bidding it with beauty dight Into llis presence thus His Words addressed To Death, whose robes were woven out of night And of the black eclipse beloved the best, And Life, who prinked with pearls her variegated vest. 11. " Spirit of beauty, and of love and light, Whose being, formless, but informing runs Through all the myriad modes of day and night, Fromfthe amceba to the quenchless suns : And thou, fair spirit whom thy sister shuns, As sunlight shadow, ye have been to me Loyal and faithful as sequestered nuns, Since o'er the world I flashed my Majesty, And out of chaos called the myriad worlds that be. 111. "And from eternity, that fountain whence All forms that were, or are, or will be, flow, My will decrees that golden eloquence Which ravishes like vesper winds that blow Musk o'er the senses in the world below, This dav in music dropping from your tongue, Shall make this spirit all incarnate glow, This lovely spirit innocently young Or follow death to halls with stars and cressets hung! " IV. He ceased and waving his bright diamond wand, That on the brilliancy that girt Him round Flashed a more vivid light, as on a pond Glitters the lightning, bade the spirit, wound With flowirg splendors and with beauties crowned, That bloom in rainbows, his sweet lips unlock, — The silver sluices of susurrant sound, Lips that the sweetest, maddest music mock In vain, though Pan himself piped to his fleecy flock. V. Then Life arose, a golden exultation Flitting and flushing through her limbs of light Like summer flashes, that with fine pulsation Glimmers through vapors that are warmly bright. Life ro6e, and beaming on the spirit white, That trembled like a star involved in mist, Eves that outsparkled all the orbs of night Thus spake, and Powers and Dominations list, To catch her words that fell like gleaming amethyst. VI. " Spirit, that standest like a silver star, Pausing in doubt between the night and day,
Whether to wander into space afar, To worlds where fancies amid rainbows play Or here abide in Heaven's transcendent ray, Mine is the power, if choosing to assume Bright incarnation like a star in spray, Thou wiliest to be mine, to give thee bloom And beauty like to that which doth the world illume." VII. "Yet ere the soft susurrus of Persuasion Breathe its sweet music on the tranced soul, Seemly is it a vision of creation Mine on thy spirit tremulous should roll, Informing it with what it would extol. Gaze therefore when the wind uplifts the light, On yonder orbs, that like a painted scroll Unfold their luminations to the sight, And flash their pendulous splendor on thy being bright." VIII. " That light with which the earth is circumvested, Like lucid diamond or circumfluous gold, Those mighty mountains carved in thunder, wrested From the black whirlwind when the world was old, Those glancing waters like an ocean rolled Of undulating lightning liquified, And the fair fields with flushing flowers enscrolled, All, all are mine, adown the light I glide, Walk on the stormy winds, and on the tempest ride." IX. " Gaze where the sunbow bends its arch of gold, And red and amethyst above the hills, Like to an aureole that doth enfold Some gentle virgin whom a tyrant kills : And where the cataract its splendor spills And bellowy thunder in the canyon deep, Note the large life and multiform that fills The teeming uplands where the rivers creep, And swan-like Commerce sails with proud majestic sweep." X. " That beauty which like music incarnated, And crystalized in variegated forms, That bloom with which the woof is permeated Of yonder world, and which the splendor warms, And kindles into brilliant life that swarms Where'er the sunlight glints, — that beauteous blush, Which brightens, vivifies, and then informs The starry shapes with loveliness, — all gush From those ethereal flames that through my being flush." XI. "There genius like the elemental splendor Of gold dissolving into translucent dew, Or shattered diamonds when their spirits render Unto the ether their prismatic hue, In other forms their being to renew, — There genius, hundred-handed, Argus-eyed, With spirit which nor Time nor Space can mew, Sweeps through the universe with pinions wide, Where suns round fiery suns in boundless orbits ride." XII. " That matchless Love, which is the bright expression By forms extrinsic of the Soul Supreme,
That potency which leaves its fine impression, And like a thread of lightning runs between The fibres of vitality,— that splendid dream Through which the earth as through a rainbow bright Passes in joy, that trembles all a-gleam, There lives in bowers with splendid jewels dight, Which throw a glor\ on the parti-colored light." XIII. "O ! scorn it not, — 'tis perfume, it is musk, With dulcet music softly interfused, ' Tis starlight tangled in purpurean dusk, And by a subtle mystery transfused To flaming flowers ; it is wine, infused With hydromel, in every panting vein ; 'Tis witching madness tenderly diffused Through every tissue like a fiery rain, Passing with kindling light and fever through the brain." XIV. " There Joy abides, not bliss ineffable, Ecstatic joys like those obtaining here, Where all is placid, deep and equable, But rapture tinctured and perfused with fear, Which but accentuates and makes it dear : Even as Sunshine, though 'tis ever bright, Is trebly beautiful on moor and mere, When through the tempest rolling on the night The strong young morning pours his fiery floods of light." XV. "Joy is a rainbow of a thousand tints, A restless soul the splendor of whose plumes, Depends upon the glancing light that glints Between the magic meshes, and illumes With beams that fall in diamonds through blooms Of versi-colored beauty : ' tis a sprite Mercurial as winds in purple glooms, Or scintillations of the stars of night, And feeds on music, flowers, and iridescent light." XVI. " And O ! fair spirit, there's a bliss beyond The deep strong happiness, secure and mild, Or that of loving hearts dissolved in fond And languorous embraces, 'tis the wild ; Tumultuous joy that thrills the froward child Of Nature in her majesty, when night, And densest thunder into mountains piled, And hurled by the tornado's fearful might Across the sky in floods of red tempestuous light," XVII. " Conspire to form a battle so sublime, So wildly grand and so magnificent, As ne'er broke forth, since first Titanic Time Brake with a thunderburst the firmament Of sheeted lightning and of gloom that pent His giant spirit in the black abysm Of mighty chaos, while the whirlwind blent With fire and death rushed through the awful schism That, with terrific roar, announced a cataclysm." XVIII. " Yet as all Beauty like the guelder-rose Is shadowed by its leaves verticillate,
And set with thorny spines whence sorrow flows, So the bright bliss beyond the opal gate Of nether life is tarnished with the hate And seeming ills, that in the dross inhere, Or flow from limitations of their state; Seeming, I say, for in the crystal clear Of placid Wisdom seen, they wise and good appear." XIX. "That grief, which darkens with a deep eclipse, The unlanguagable beauty of the mind, That poignant pain, whose pestilential lips Feed on the vitals as a fiery wind Gnaws the light larch, or liquidambar's rind : Yea, every form of suffering may be Transmuted into flowers of gold refined, By Fortitude, that heavenly alchemy, Whose sublimating power turns dust to brilliancy." XX. "Shrink not from Pain : it is the shower of fire, Through which the spirit brightly purified, Passes on pinions of sublime desire Out of the shadow of Despair and Pride, Into the light where Seraphim abide. Pain is the path of flame the saints have trod, The font baptismal of the Sanctified, The thorny coronal and bloody rod, That smote the sacred flesh of the Incarnate God." XXI. " Live, and bring genius and sublime endeavor, And the deep forces of a manful life Into the serried lines that fain would sever The ranks of Wrong in the eternal Strife 'Twixt Good and 111,—a war unto the knife. Be thou the champion bold, whose trumpet tones, Thrilling an age with sin and murder rife, Urge Freedom to assume her throne of thrones, And turn to paeans of joy a nation's dying groans." XXII. She ceased, and lo! as comets leave behind A light of glory in the burning sky, Or as the setting sun the ponent wind And golden west imprints with every dye, Her florid language and enkindling eye Fired the bright ether till a rosy streak Flushed through its beauty and its brilliancy ; She ceased, and conscious that her words were weak, Retired, while crimson bloom incarnadined her cheek. XXIII. Then Death uprose, and from her mobled brow, Flung wide her veil as black as thunder-gloom. And Oh ! what language can describe the glow ; The wondrous beauty and ethereal bloom. The light, the music, mingled with perfume, That flashed in splendor from her godlike eye ! It was as if with a volcanic boom, A glorious sunburst on a stormy skv, Blazed with the dazzling sun of Immortality. XXIV. " Ah me ! " she said, " how well can Sophistry, With words that sparkle on their rainbow wings,
Dazzle the mind, and by its witchery Lead it where'er it lists with silken strings. She is a snake that hides her lightning stings Beneath the rose whose rustle drowns her hiss, A siren, who bedizened o'er with rings, And opal and smaragdus, with a kiss, Betrays the ill-starred youth she hurls into th' abyss 1" XXV. O ! What is earthly Being but the roots, The blind amorphous rootlets of that tree, Whose giant trunk into the heaven shoots, Whose leaves are stars of immortality, Whose flowers are splendors of eternity ! O ! what is Life, but those bare thunder-blocks That frown above a wilderness of sea, Above whose sullen roar and angry shocks, The gorgeous sunbow blooms on Heaven's ethereal locks! XXVI. " Life is the shadow of that light supernal, Whose Beauty broken into diamond tints, By the pure crystal of the Love eternal, Kindles the universe and glows and glints On incarnated splendors and imprints Its glory on them. Life is the black gloom, The stormy darkness of the deep, that hints Of suns, extinguished by the blast of doom, Or swept into oblivion by the red simoom." XXVII. " And what the bliss that life subdial gives, To that transcendent and profound delight, That floods the spirit and forever lives In bowers of beauty and eternal light? What is the splendor of the spangled night, The lusciousness that lurks in nectarine, To those elysian joys, those glories bright, Whose white refulgence from the brow divine, Floods with aerial gold the flashing hyaline ? " XXVIII. " Glory! What is it but a fiery splendor, A blazing arch of coruscating flame, Reared unto genius or to Beauty tender, Until the storm that venerates no name Bursts on the scintilating bow of fame, And dashing it to earth mid clouds of fire, Whirls it with scornful breath of burning blame, Full in the favorite's face, and in its ire, Turns the triumphal-arch into a funeral pyre! " XXIX. " And Love, what is it but a golden vision, A starry exhalation of the night, Whose perfumed whisper tells of vales Elysian, Paven with sardonyx and essonite ! But falsely, for those gardens of delight Stretch far away beyond the western wave, Swept by the tempest in his fiery might, And they who for the fruit the storm would brave Find nought but marish wells, a desert, and a grave.' XXX. "And what is Genius, but a glow-worm's light, A feeble glimmer in a glen of gloom,
A beam that like a vein of silver bright, Runs through the midnight veil of vengeful doom ; It is a flash extinguished by the boom, That trumpeted its glory to the dav; A star, that like sweet music in a room, Is sweetest as it falls and fades awav; A golden statue standing upon feet of clav ! " XXXI. "A brilliant Spirit on triumphant wings, Wheeling through circles of its own delight, Up to the belvedere of Heaven springs, And soaring on to the empyrean height, Sweeps through the region of eternal light. But lo! a sudden tempest on a spire Of flame and death arrests his downward flight, And hurtling forward its red bolt of fire Transpierces the proud bird and hurls him in the mire." XXXII. "That dazzling Beauty o'er the ether beaming, That radiance which instars the ambient air, That light in music and in splendor streaming On starlets pendulous or rainbows rare, That charms the thunder in its gloomy lair. What is it to the brilliant brow of Ilim, The transcendental glory of whose fair And radiant features makes the sunshine dim, And flashes through the world to its remotest rim ? " XXXIII. " Oh, how can earthly beauty, faint and fleet, Transient as foam bells on a summer stream, Or that etherial translucent sleet Of starry silver whose refulgent gleam Is evanescent as a rosy dream; — O, how can beauty which is but a blot, A brinded blot upon the brilliant beam Of Heaven compare with Splendor without spot, With Light Eternal kindled by Eternal Thought?" XXXIV. " All earthly forms in gradual transition Through birth and beauty pass to pale decav; Pass to Oblivion, and ordained excision Through glamours golden and through glimmers gay : Bloom is the bright ephemeron, whose dav Sinks in the stagnant wave of endless night; And glory, evanescent as a ray Of starshine shivered upon chabasite, Fades with the flickering fire that fed its fickle light." XXXV. " In vain to brim the heart's unsated calice, Their sweetest muscatel such joys distil: In vain 1 for O ! th' insatiable chalice, Though all the mulse of love and music fill Its beauty to the brim, is thirsty still. A deeper bliss, a nectar more divine, And supersensual the cup must thrill, Ambrosial dews, etherial muscadine, The vintage virginal of Christ's envermeiled vine!" XXXVI. She ceased, and in the air the warm vibrations Of her sweet speech of aspirated gold,
With music filled the sky and 'laminations, And iridescent colors manifold. O! 'twas a rapturous vision to behold The play of bright prismatic tints that glowed Around the music as it onward rolled ; For on the crest of every wave there rode Aerial hues that changed with every line that flowed. XXXVII. Then did the Spirit poise itself in air, The joung-eyed Spirit whom the Father called From night and nothingness, and glowing there, Before the Everlasting One, Who walled The lightning in the tempest and enthralled The smoking thunder blushingly began His handsel effort, whilst the Powers extolled The lovely lights that o'er his beaut}' ran, And diamondizing wings, that trembled like a fan : XXXVIII. " Father of Light, and Life, and Love, and Pleasure; And ye, fair Princess of the splendid skies, Though bliss untold, undreamed of, without measure Pervades these blooming powers of Paradise, And glories glitter that angelic eyes Can scarce sustain, yet doth my soul confess That incarnated in the world that lies Beyond the stars, by merit and by stress Of suffering, it would attain this Happiness!" XXXIX. " Mine eves are dazzled with the gorgeous splendor, That fall around in diamonded showers, And sparkles on all sides in glories tender Or tints with versicolored light the flowers, That breathe of musk in amaranthine bowers; Mine ears are ravished with the music golden That falls in ripples from the topaz towers, But yet I would perceive the Unbeholden, And tread the fiery path trod by the martyr's olden." XL. " 'Tis not glory, of which Life hath spoken Allures me with its aureole of fire, Its rainbow glitterand as diamonds broken, Its golden zoster and its jeweled tire : For these are shadows to the rolling spire Of flame and splendor that above us whirls, And thrilling with its beams the golden lyre, The softest, sweetest, maddest music hurls In colored curves that gleam like amethysts and pearls." XLI. " 'Tis not that Beauty lures me with her bloom The starlike splendor of her shining front, Her words that gleam like jewels in the gloom, And laughing eyes of h vacinthizont; For Beauty's but a dewdrop from the Font The glorious Font of Loveliness and Light, 'Tis but the shadow of the golden Mont, The pale reflection of the lustre bright, Of Him, who holds in equipoise the dav and night." XLII. " Nor Love, which in its motion elemental, Is only Self, sublimed and purified,
Ah, no! the union with the Transcendental, Where self immersed in God is glorified, Is bliss to which all other bliss beside, Is as the wormwood unto hydromel, Is as the murmur of the water-side Unto the mighty bursts of song that swell In golden storms upon these fields of astrofel." XLIII. " No, if my spirit from its full-orbed splendor Would pass through darkness to its chrysalis In dull carnation, 'tis that it would render The mundane life more mindful of the bliss, That is the essence and the breath of this. 'Tis that 'twould wean it from the vile and vernile, Translate it far beyond the precipice, And so, suffusing it with light supernal, Lift it above itself into the Life Eternal." XLIV. " To urge on man the life that's lived in spirit, High in the rarest attitudes of soul, That just, and purified, he may inherit The Life, preordinated as his goal, The deathless diadem of self-control. O ! this be mine! be this my heavenly mission, That in the Book of gold I may enscroll The name of legions, who by sin's elision, In ecstasy may gaze upon the glorious Vision ! " XLV. " He spake, all bright with rosy perturbation; The splendor flashing through his lucent limbs, In the prefulgence of its radiation, Surpassing even the white sun that dims Each several star that in its glory swims : He spake, and golden blushed, as o'er him bent Th' approving Diety : then to the rims Of planets ultimate, the myriads sent A thunder-burst of song that shook the firmament." XL VI. " Glory to God, the Wisdom of the wise, The Beauty of the beautiful, the Light, That was ere Time titanic in the skies Hung his great pendulum, the sun-orb bright, The golden arbiter 'twixt Day and Night; That was, and is, and will be, when the world Shattered and shivered by the thunder's might, On fiery blasts to ruin will be hurled, Sun, stars, and all, in one tremendous maelstrom whirled! Juliaii E. Johnstone, 'p/, Niagara Falls, N. V. Like a treasure rare, Is a loyal friend, Guard with anxious care, As a treasure rare, This gift beyond compare, Even to life's end ; Like a treasure rare Is a loyal friend.
I sat where the willow weepeth, Where the wandering wind repeateth Its lay right mournfully. And the spirit of rest there sought me, And this is the dream it brought me, As I slept by the willow tree : When the hills were crimson-crested, Methought on a mount I rested, Far over the waste of the sea. And anigh me a willow was growing, With the morning's splendor glowing, — Now the mount was Calvary. Then a sound brake on my hearing, Like the voice of a storm-wind nearing, Or the muffled din of the sea; And there followed apace the ramping And the clang of brass, and the tramping And glitter of soldiery. And they came where the willow uplifted Its branches to heaven, and they rifted Its boughs full lustily. And straightway the branches they plaited In scourges for Him they hated, — Meek Jesus of Galillee. Now, it came to pass near noon-tide, That our thorn-crowned Easter Lamb hied To His Cross, past the willow tree ; And He stayed there His step, and turning, He looked on the tree with a yearning And a love ail heavenly. Then, lo you ! the willow stoopeth, As a frost-smitten floweret droopeth, When gray winter broods on the land, — And the willow even now weepeth, And its branches to this day keepeth For grief ever kissing the sand.
Christian! the light that shimmers Across the sunlit sea, The breeze that blows and damask-rose, And saffron-scented lea; The evening star that glimmers Above the linden tree, And glints and glows at vespers' close, For love I gave to thee! Christian ! the sunbow's splendor I gladly hung on high, And fold on fold, the cloth of gold I rolled across the sky; I gave thee music tender, And songsters sweet and shy To move the cold, and melt the bold, And charm the ear and eye. Christian ! much more than beauty, And music melrose sweet, Than anadems and diadems, And gems for maidens neat, I gave thee —love and duty, A heart to feel and beat, A god-like mind to know me kind, And find the mercy seat 1 And, ah! in my demission, I left the halls above, And shed for thee this blood of Me To win thee to the Dove; Yea, for thy sins' remission, Sore-smit by glaive and glove, This life of Me, I gave for thee, And only ask thy love!
When e'er I probe the teeming haunts of men, In vain I strive some giant soul to find, Some creature of surpassing wealth of mind, To whom my lesser self might, there and then, Grant excellence.-—ln vain ! In vain ! and when I shun the hurtling crowd, not fancy-blind, But seeking truth with earnest heart and kind I find but vanity within my ken. O death ! O life ephemeral! O stuff By poets and philosophers esteemed As the profoundest reason, which a puff Of this sound theory must dissipate : "Not for these puppet shows great suns have beamed But all to brighten our created state."
IN golden legends of the olden days, The tale is told of Florimund, the wonder, A sculptor working thoughtless of the thunder That worldly-wise bestow as meed of praise, But aiming only in ideal flight To carve a statue perfect as he might. Upon a day the statue stood complete While Florimund was young: and kings admiring Sent treasured gold and promises, desiring To own it as a most artistic feat; But Florimund would only answer : " Nay ! It is not perfect: come another day." Day after day they came, year after year, Yet ever found him at his post of duty, Each moment adding some detail of beauty : But when they said : " Perfection sure is here !" Then Florimund would coldly answer : " Nay ! It is not perfect, come another day." But when the years were gone, upon a day, Thev found the sculptor resting from his labor; Then cautious each one whispered to his neighbor, " 'Tis perfect now—he cannot say us nay;" But Florimund would only shake his head : " It will not perfect be till I am dead."
When peaceful spring mounts over hill and dale, And 'neath the sunshine melts the glistening snow, And May's first robin warbles in tbe vale, And in the grass the flowers begin to blow, And biting frost the fields Hath fled, and winter yields, And vernal-time its gentle power wields, From mount to valley green The echoes joyous sing : How beautiful a queen Art thou, O Spring! When the sun with fiery darts smites the ice mount's peak, And down the mountain slopes swift torrents hurtle, And song birds sing, and honey garners seek For hidden sweets mid rose and twining myrtle : When from their airy seat Murmur the wood-doves sweet, And earth and sky one joyance-song repeat. From mount to valley green, The echoes joyous ring, How beautiful a queen, Art thou, O Spring!
Out from its secret spring, Over the lea, Ever meandering On to the sea, Lost in the shady glen, Bright on the plain again : —• So coursed the streamlet, its way, full and free. Noiselessly gliding now Silver sands o'er, Kissing the willow's bough Shading its shore; Then over stony bed Babbling it onward sped,— Hasting to join the great ocean, it bore. Now with its bosom wide Turning the mills; Rounding the hillock's side, Joined by a rill; Sweeping the village past, Stately it flowed and fast, On to the briny waves hurrying still. O when first forth it gushed Fresh from the earth, Like liquid gems it rushed Sparkling in mirth. Ah, as it greater grew, Stained was its virgin hue : Purest the flow where the rock gives it birth. So are we hurried yet, On to the sea, Each life a rivulet, How long to be? But as we onward flow, May we e'er purer grow. — Nearing the ocean of eternity.
Listen, then, O Spring, nor linger On thy charmed way, Pity thou the prisoned flowers Aweary for the May. The trees within the forest, May will clothe anew; Bring choirs of happy songsters And skies of clearest blue : Bring fields of dappled daisies With clear dew-drops wet, And hide in sun and shadow The purple violet. Listen, then, O Spring, and hasten On thy charmed way, Pity thou the prisoned flowers Aweary for the May.
Danceth the sunlight over hill and valley, And silver streamlets are purling musically, While the blithe birds in mead and green-wood alley Welcome the glad May. Gone are the jewels sparkling in the white snow, But in the meadow and on the sun-kissed height grow Nodding king-cups, and daffadillies bright glow All through the glad May. Black care and sadness wane, and carking sorrow, Like to the night before a sunlit morrow, And all our days new light and borrow From the glad month, May. Give to the May-tide all our hearts' fond greeting; Hail to the May month 1 Thou art all too fleeting. — List! in the fields charmed Nature is entreating : Tarry, sweet queen May !
When peaceful night hangs low Above the shadowy plain, And whispering night-winds blow With murmured, sweet refrain ; Then come, thy smiles bestow, Nor me in grief disdain; When peaceful night hangs low Above the shadowy plain Then wilt thou soothe my woe, And comfort me. Yea, fain, Care-lulling sleep, I'd know The blessings of thy reign, When peaceful night hangs low Above the shadowy plain
A hush on the lofty mountains, A hush o'er the lowly vales, And night from the lanes of the forest Her funeral shadow trails I wander afar on the headland To the foot of the tamarack tree, And I muse forsaken and lonely, Oh ! lonely as lonely can be. I bend mine ear and I listen If the voices of loved ones at home Will come through the stillness and whisper A solace to me in my gloom. Alas! I hear nought in the stillness Save the moan of the desolate sea; And my heart it is aching and lonely, Oh ! lonely as lonely can be. I look above in the heavens To the stars by Him set apart, Which often in moments of sadness Illumined and gladdened my heart. But to-night a cloud has come o'er it And hidden its lustre from me : To-night I am mournful and lonely, Oh ! lonely as lonely can be. I sigh o'er the days of my childhood A tear for the beautiful past: No trust in the hopes of the future, No hopes for a joy that can last. I live encircled by phantoms, And I cling to a love that must flee : Oh ! I ne'er was so sad and so lonely, Oh ! lonely as lonely can be. " Poor waif! what need of repining?" Said a voice in the caverns below; " If the hearts thou hast loved are too narrow To embrace thee now in thy woe, Look aloft to Him whose affection Is broad and immense as the sea; And thy heart so despondent and lonely Shall be happy as happy can be. 
When on a rock-bound coast, at close of day, Dark, dismal night descends to cover all, Both land and sea, with dreaded sable pall, How would the sailor's soul sink with dismay, Except that through the gloom, with steadfast ray, The lonely beacon gleamed its welcome light, By which the seaman guides his course aright. Till morning drive the cheerless night away? So would we fear upon the sea of life, When round us flock the tempting demon host, And naught but shameful sin and guilt is rife, Save that when wickedness may flourish most, Thou dost still shine throughout the sinful strife, " Our tainted nature's solitary boast."
Close to my treasure, There is my heart; Raptured with pleasure It can not depart; Sweet beyond measure, Jesus, Thou art.
Bird of passage, Then fare you well! Take this message To little Nell, My sister sweet, Whose pattering feet Oft ran to greet Her brother. That doleful song I've heard from you The Summer long, Oh ! sing anew 'Neath willow tree, Where buried she Lies far from me Her brother.
Far away to a land unknown to man, To a dreary echoless shore, My thoughts fly fast on the midnight blast That moans at my chamber door. And there while the lightning flashes Athwart the storm-tossed sea, From the sorrows and strife of my gloom-dimmed life I long my soul to free. Yea, oft when my heart is aweary 1 think of my home on high, Where Care, like a night-bird done to death, Shall faint on the shore and die.
Now the leaf is in the sere, And the sad and sober year Heaves a sigh, and sheds a tear For the dead September; For the summer's perfect days, Purple mists and golden haze, Pleasant walks, and woodland ways, She doth well remember : Sheds a tear, and heaves a sigh For the beauties of July, When the sea, and when the sky Is like a beryl bluest; Moans for all the roses dead, Groans for all the finches fled, Where the palm tree lifts its head, And men's hearts are truest. Sobs for berry-bearing June, When the daj's are like a tune, Like a song on the lagoon, Sung by lads and lasses ; Mourns the lilting of the lark, And the glow-worm in the dark, Gleaming like a golden spark, Mid the ferns and grasses. Now the leaf is in the sere, And the wan and yellow year Bows her head, and sheds a tear For the dead September : Sighs at thought of summer o'er, Song and laughter heard no more, Weeps at thought of winter frore Coming with December.
Flaming corollas round great disks of snow And silver trefoils fashioned all of light Flash out their molten petals on the night. A field of flowers! How wondrous do they blow! What splendors from their burning faces flow ! Splendors, which would unveil the statues' sight, Deceive the sculptured angels into flight, And poured thro' parting eyelids set aglow Their hearts of stone, did they not slumber deep Enraptured with the glory of the Lord, The snow-white radiance of eternity. Dream on, fixt forms; and we'll away to reap What further harvests Nature may afford And pour them at God's feet unstintingly.
One evening in passing a cottage I stopped by a hawthorn tree, Entranced with a voice that seemed sweeter Than the voice of a mortal could be, The voice was that of a woman, Who sang, at her distaff and wheel; She sang of the deepest of sorrow, That human affection can feel. But the tones of her grief brought before you A heart full of hope and of love, As the face of a prophet, in sorrow, Is bright with a light from above, Though wrung to the core with affliction, She was glad as an angel, I wis. Her song I do not remember, But its trend and burden was this : — " Cark and care Are the lot of man ; They grind and wear, They rend and tear The heart of man. By hope and prayer, We'll gladly bear The doom of man." Desirous to treasure the story Of that woman's cross and her crown, I hied me forthwith to the threshold, And enquired the road to the town, A single glance, — and the story Was plainer than words would have told. 'T was well, for I could not have asked her A question so rude and so cold. The vacant chair by the fireside With the dress that the darling one wore; The picture, rose-crowned, on the mantel, Which the mother was spinning before ; The sorrowful face of that mother Told me all that I wished for and more.
When first I quit the Sunny South, My a was like an adze ; But as further north I flew, It broader still and broader grew According to the fads. In Baltimore I was half a calf; In Quakerdom a whole one; In Gotham town they set me down For a mighty queer and droll one. Though Boston is my favorite haunt, And I am gay and jaunty, I cannot call my maiden aunt, Nor even dub her aunty. I have not grit to do it, And verily I rue it. And yet I have a dozen others, Both on father's side and mother's, Who are just as prim and gaunt: And so I really can't, In justice can't.
Fount of Bandusia crystalline clear, Rare wine is your due And flowers ; to you Shall be given a kid on the morrow, Whom the budding brow marks out for a life Of love and strife In vain, I fear. Alas ! for the wanton flock's sorrow : Its hope shall tinge with reddening blood The streams of your ice-cold flood. The fieixest hour Of the Dogstar's power Never pierced the shade of your sacred shrine, Whose delicious cool Holds grateful rule O'er the plough-weaned ox and the wandering kine. One of earth's famed founts in my songs you shall be, With your ilex tree Standing sentinel O'er the cavernous rocks of the dell, Whence carolling waters leap forth in glee.
O bit of a Babe, Just after birth! Is Thy tiny hand Whirling the earth, Even as young folk Trundle for mirth ? Say what I may, Faith answers, yea. Tell me, I pray, O weak little Mite ! Didst Thou make the day, And Thou make the night? The sun and the moon, To give us their light? Ask what I may, Faith answers, yea. O poor little Infant, Trembling wi h cold ! Are Thine the treasures Of silver and gold ? And Thine the mansions Of glory untold? Admire as I mav, Yet Faith answers, yea. The heavenlv music That floodeth the night, The myriad angels Of quivering light— Are all but for Thee, Thou wee little Mite? Though marvel I may, Still Faith answers, yea. Have ages agone Been sighing for Thee? Art Thou the Messiah Expected to be? And come to redeem The world and me ? Talk as I may, Faith answers, yea. Well-a-day, Babe, Neglected Thou art! Come then and nestle Deep down in my heart: Prithee, stay near me And never depart. To all that I say, Does Faith whisper, yea.
Homer, no grander music rolls than thine, Nor sweeter, fresher numbers ever flowed. The brook's clear murmur on its pebbly road And ocean's thunder sound along thy line. Bright, too, as changeful rays of sunset shine From out some darkening cloud, thy light has glowed Through the sole rent of clouded time, and showed Thy Soul's creations human and divine. No lips, Greek bard, e'er moulded gentler song, Nor ever voiced a measure more sublime. Hence all that wondrous world of thine became The land of poetry; its people throng The lordliest verse of every tongue and time, Yet thou, they strangely say, art but a name.
Bend the twig that it may go The way you wish the tree to grow; A pebble at the brooklet's source Will often change the river's course ; A little fault not checked in time May cause our life to end in crime.
These are the days of the ringing of bells, Of love and sunshine and gladness, Of music entrancing that goes along dancing, And scatters all sadness. These are the days of the tinkle of sleighs, The merry, mad days of December, When the cheek like a rose in the winter wind glows And the eye like an ember. When it is life to be out in the air, The river all frozen before you, And you hurry along on your skates to the song Of the starry lights o'er you. This is the time of toboggan and sled, Of dances and revel and rollic, And of boisterous laughter that shaketh the rafter, And feasting and frolic. Of the holly-berry and mistletoe And the roaring fire in the ingle, And the peppermint and the punch without stint, When old friends commingle. Yes, this is the time of the carnival, The season of mirth and of gladness, 'Tis the time of the riddle, the banjo and fiddle, Of music and madness. But in the midst of our merriment, boys, Let every one ever remember The poor little stranger that lay in the manger That night in December. That night in December long ages agone, When the star like a fiery streamer, To the shepherds so lowly and Magi holy, Announced the Redeemer. Let us set apart a room in our heart, A little room sunny and cosy, For the beatiful child of Miriam mild, Little Jesus, the rosy.
He forgot his father's orders, Till reminded by a punch ; He forgot his pen and paper, But he ne'er forgot his lunch. He forgot to write his exercise, Left his Horace on the train; But he didn't forget the football, And he practised in the rain. He had no head for history, Yet he had a tooth for dates; He always missed his prosody, And still he blamed the Fates. His memory for figures— Well, he had next to none; He forgot the other numbers, But never, Number One.
Through the brooding n'ght, Angels bright Pass in serried order to the plain. Swift athwart the sky, Gleaming high, Meteors flash to guide the glowing train, And streams of song flow down the air, Moving everywhere. Yet no sparkling throne Of jasper stone There for seraph host to worship low. Sad the earth and cold, Winter wold Is fraught with gloom, and midnight waste of snow. Why throng these hallowed columns jovously Tremulous with melody? List! Their anthem loud Now greets the bowed Shepherds kneeling in the vales below, "Unto you is born This golden morn Christ your Saviour, born to mend your woe." "Peace, Peace to earth," the measured message rang. "Hail! Hail! O King," they sang.
In springtime all that I desire Are lessons which are short and sweet; In summer time I never tire Of musing far from sun and heat. In autumn days I like to play At football on our grassy field, And then go home and tell the way How inch by inch we made them yield. In winter I would like to sit Before the fire and talk, or read A work of classic taste and wit, Or watch the forms of changing gleed. But life is not an empty dream, We must be up and doing too; And I have still to write my theme Unless perchance this verse may do.
In days of old, the valiant knight Made battle bold for guerdon si ight Of fleeting blush, or quickening glance, And hearts were won with plume and lance, Of men in panoply bedight. Alack! my modern love last night Hath read of joust and tourney bright, And troubadours who sang in France, In days of old. To-day her smiles beam for a wight, Who on the campus leads the fight, ller soul is wrapped in deep romance, In dreams her "rush" is crowned, perchance, As when mad warriors matched their might In days of old.
An arch little maiden With gold in her hair, Flinging the sunshine Of youth everywhere. Twenty years afterward Sorrows untold Had clouded the sunshine And pilfered the gold. Be not aweary, Poor, desolate heart! Though trials and troubles May here be thy part, 'Tis but for a seas n ; Thy sunshine and gold Shall await thee in heaven A hundredfold.